Year: Semester: 2017-18 Fall 
ACCT1010 - Accounting, Business and Society (3)
Attribute:	(SA)
Exclusion: 	ACCT 2010, ACCT 2020
Description: 	Overview of accounting in business and social contexts; use of accounting information for accountability and decision making in companies, non-profit organizations, and government; major elements of accounting, including assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses; discharge of accountability by companies through corporate social and environmental reports.
ACCT2010 - Principles of Accounting I (3)
Exclusion: 	ACCT 2020
Description: 	For SB&M students, and programs that designate the course as a required/specified elective course. This is the first course of the principles of accounting sequence. Introduction to the concepts and principles of financial accounting, including the analysis, recording, and reporting of business transactions and preparation of financial statements.
ACCT3010 - Financial Accounting I (3)
Prerequisite: 	ACCT 2010
Exclusion: 	ACCT 3030
Description: 	Study of the application of generally accepted accounting principles to accounting for business organizations; evaluation of balance sheet accounts and the related effects on income determination.
ACCT3030 - Intermediate Financial Accounting for Non-Accounting Majors (3)
Prerequisite: 	ACCT 2010 or ACCT 2020
Exclusion: 	ACCT 3010, ACCT 3020
Description: 	Financial accounting concepts and practices with particular emphasis on the analysis and interpretation of financial reports and data.
ACCT3610 - Functions of Law in Society and Business (3)
Attribute:	(SA)
Exclusion: 	ACCT 3650
Description: 	This course is to provide students with an awareness of the overall legal framework in which businesses in Hong Kong operate so as to enable them to apply the relevant laws and practices to business problems and practical solutions. The main objective is to give students an understanding of how the society and business function in different socio-legal contexts like the legal system and process and its influence on citizens’ social rights and duties; the enforcement and honoring of agreement between private citizens, the use of business organizations in commercial society, the relationship between employee and employer from social and legal perspectives, the growing importance of business ethics and corporate social responsibilities etc.
ACCT3880 - Professional Excellence Program (1)
Description: 	Introductory-level seminars and workshops on the accounting/auditing professions; development of life-skills including writing and other communication skills; and individual thinking skills; ethics for accountants. For SB&M students only. Graded P or F.
ACCT4010 - Advanced Financial Accounting (3)
Prerequisite: 	ACCT 3020
Description: 	Addresses accounting issues associated with (1) intercorporate investment activity that conveys significant influence or control and (2) cross-border activities.  The core topics addressed are business combinations, consolidated financial statements, associated companies, and foreign currency issues.
ACCT4510 - Auditing (3)
Prerequisite: 	ACCT 3020
Description: 	Objectives, standards and procedures of auditing; preparation of working papers; applications of statistical sampling; computer-assisted auditing and auditing of electronic data processing (EDP) services; professional liability and ethics.
ACCT5100 - Financial Accounting Foundations (2)
Exclusion: 	ACCT 5150, IMBA 5030
Previous Code: 	ACCT 510
Vector: 	[2-0-0:2]
Description: 	Introduction to accounting concepts, preparation and interpretation of financial statements. This is a core course for MBA.
ACCT5150 - Accounting Foundations (2)
Exclusion: 	ACCT 5100, IMBA 5030
Previous Code: 	ACCT 515
Vector: 	[2-0-0:2]
Description: 	Introduction to accounting concepts, preparation and interpretation of financial statements.
ACCT5160 - Corporate Financial Reporting I (2)
Prerequisite: 	ACCT 5100 or ACCT 5150
Previous Code: 	ACCT 516
Vector: 	[2-0-0:2]
Description: 	Corporate financial reporting from the perspective of managers and financial statement users, including analysts. Topics include inventories, fixed assets, income taxes, liabilities, leases, off-balance-sheet debt, and dilutive securities.
ACCT5170 - Corporate Financial Reporting II (2)
Prerequisite: 	ACCT 5160
Previous Code: 	ACCT 517
Vector: 	[2-0-0:2]
Description: 	Corporate financial reporting from the perspective of managers and financial statement users, including analysts.  Topics include intercorporate investments, business combinations, multinational operations, pensions, and earnings quality.
ACCT5210 - Managerial Accounting Foundations (2)
Exclusion: 	IMBA 5060
Previous Code: 	ACCT 521
Vector: 	[2-0-0:2]
Description: 	Use of accounting data in decision-making, financial planning, control, and performance evaluation within organizations. This is a core course for MBA.
ACCT5220 - International Treasury Management (2)
Vector: 	[2-0-0:2]
Description: 	Specialized knowledge in international treasury operation and management control, risk management, inflation and foreign currency changes as well as international transfer pricing.
ACCT5630 - Business Law (2)
Previous Code: 	ACCT 690O
Vector: 	[2-0-0:2]
Description: 	This course is designed for the study of Business Law with practical examples of the application of law in the real business world. The course materials cover  topics highly relevant to the business managers in the decision making process. The end goal is to elevate the student's level of understanding of the surrounding legal environment.
ACCT5640 - Company Law (2)
Prerequisite: 	ACCT 5630
Vector: 	[2-0-0:2]
Description: 	Law relating to companies registered in Hong Kong; company formation and records; share and loan capital; management and administration; reconstructions; mergers and take-overs; liquidation and receivership.
ACCT6990 - MPhil Thesis Research (0)
Previous Code: 	ACCT 699
Description: 	Master's thesis research supervised by a faculty member.  A successful defense of the thesis leads to the grade Pass.  No course credit is assigned.
ACCT7990 - Doctoral Thesis Research (0)
Previous Code: 	ACCT 799
Description: 	Original and independent doctoral thesis research.  A successful defense of the thesis leads to the grade Pass.  No course credit is assigned.
AESF5210 - Fluid Dynamics (3)
Exclusion: 	MECH 5210, MESF 5210
Colist with: 	MESF 5210
Vector: 	[3-0-0:3]
Description: 	Basic concepts of fluid flows, derivation of governing equations, viscous flow, potential flow, boundary layer, flow instability, transition to turbulence, turbulent boundary layer.
AESF5310 - Advanced Aerodynamics (3)
Vector: 	[3-0-0:3]
Description: 	Circulation, Kutta-Joukowski theorem, thin airfoil theory, lifting line theory, wingtip vortices, induced drag, elliptical wings, boundary layers, normal and oblique shocks, bow shocks, Prandtl-Meyer expansion fans, linearized potential flow theory, Prandtl-Glauert transformation, wave drag, transonic flow, swept wings, critical Mach number, supercritical airfoils.
AESF5320 - Advanced Aircraft Structures (3)
Vector: 	[3-0-0:3]
Description: 	Aircraft structural design, wing structural details, elasticity, maneuver and gust loading, fatigue analysis, vibration theory, static and dynamic aeroelasticity, energy and matrix methods.
AESF5370 - Composites and Nanocomposites (3)
Exclusion: 	MESF 5370
Colist with: 	MESF 5370
Vector: 	[3-0-0:3]
Description: 	This course is designed to provide fundamental understanding of fiber-reinforced composites (FRPs) and emerging nanocomposites technologies. The topics include constituent materials, microstructure-property relationships, fabrication and processing techniques, fundamental mechanics of stress transfer, lamination theory and failure mechanisms and fracture of FRPs in the first part. The topics in the second part include synthesis of nanoscale reinforcements, fabrication and processing techniques of nanocomposites; dispersion and functionalization of nanoreinforcements; interfacial adhesion; mechanical and functional properties of nanocomposites, and their design and applications.
AESF6910A - Aviation Economics (3)
Exclusion: 	MECH 6910N
Vector: 	[3-0-0:3]
Description: 	This course aims to provide the students with some basic knowledge and methods on the economic aspects of the civil aviation sector. A review on the economic aspects in the aerospace sector is first given. This is followed by market analysis methods, analysis of development cost of new technologies and its impact on aircraft project. Development schedule, the unit cost of aircraft, and life cycle cost of aircraft programs are also discussed. From airlines’ perspective, the concept and methods of operating cost are described, along with discussions on differentiation factors between low cost and major airlines. Other areas covered include cost estimation relations, economic implications of environmental impact, and engine program cost. Value driven design and design for economics is given in the last few lectures to illustrate that how economic analysis methods can be used in aircraft design process to provide added value. Some brief discussions on UAV costing is also given.
AESF6950A - Aeronautical Independent Project (3)
Vector: 	[3 credits]
Description: 	An independent research project on Aeronautical Engineering carried out under the supervision of a faculty member.
AESF6950B - Aeronautical Independent Project (6)
Vector: 	[6 credits]
Description: 	An independent research project on Aeronautical Engineering carried out under the supervision of a faculty member.
BIEN5040 - Introduction to Bioengineering Research (3)
Exclusion: 	CENG 600Q
Previous Code: 	BIEN 504
Vector: 	[3-0-0:3]
Description: 	Bioengineering is an interdisciplinary field that integrates biological sciences, physics, chemistry, medicine and engineering. This course will provide a survey of bioengineering research areas to provide our research postgraduate students a broad appreciation of different areas. Topics are to be chosen from the following areas: bioinformatics; medical imaging and analysis; molecular, cell and tissue engineering; biomaterials and drug delivery; biochemical engineering; lab on chip and biosensors; and medical devices. The course aims to help student recognize and understand how knowledge from science and engineering interface in this interdisciplinary application.
BIEN6770 - Professional Development in Bioengineering (1)
Vector: 	[0-1-0:1]
Description: 	This one-credit course aims at providing research postgraduate students with basic training in teaching skills, research management, career development, and related professional skills. This course consists of a number of mini-workshops
and seminars. Some department-specific workshops/seminars will be coordinated by Bioengineering Program. Graded PP, P or F.
BIEN6800M - Bioengineering Seminar (0)
Vector: 	[0-1-0:0]
Description: 	Seminar topics presented by students, faculty and guest speakers. Students are expected to attend regularly and demonstrate proficiency in their seminar presentation in accordance with the program requirements. Graded P or F.
BIEN6930A - Global Health Ethics Case Studies (3)
Vector: 	[3-0-0:3]
Description: 	Through real-time videoconferencing, this online course aims at helping students learn the definitions of global health ethics and bioethics, the protocol and systems in place to ensure adherence to ethical principles, and how different stakeholders and cultures may interpret ethics differently. This course is co-offered with the University of Southern California and involves universities in Mainland China, Mexico, and Philippines. Besides nine joint LIVE sessions, UST students will also meet the UST instructors face-to-face for the introduction of background knowledge, reading and understanding of cases, and technical support. Instructor's consent is needed.
BIEN6990 - MPhil Thesis Research (0)
Previous Code: 	BIEN 699
Description: 	Master's thesis research supervised by a faculty member.  A successful defense of the thesis leads to the grade Pass.  No course credit is assigned.
BIEN7990 - Doctoral Thesis Research (0)
Previous Code: 	BIEN 799
Description: 	Original and independent doctoral thesis research.  A successful defense of the thesis leads to the grade Pass.  No course credit is assigned.
BIPH3010 - Advanced Biological Physics (3)
Prerequisite: 	BIPH 2010 AND (LIFS 2010 OR LIFS 2040) AND (PHYS 1114 OR PHYS 1314)
Description: 	Biological physics involves the application of physics to achieve an understanding of life processes. This is the second of a two-course series that will prepare advanced undergraduates for research and technical work in Biological physics. It covers advanced biological physics such as molecular and cellular biological physics, photophysics, single-molecule biophysics, medical biophysics, membrane biological physics, neurobiophysics, biostatistics, biomathematics, bioinformatics, computational biology and protein engineering. At the conclusion of this course, students will be able to critically assess primary research literature written for a general scientific audience. They will also be prepared for mentored practical research investigations or professional job related to biological physics.
BTEC5360 - Biopharmaceutical Workshop (3)
Vector: 	[1-0-6:3]
Description: 	Introduction to various laboratory techniques commonly applied in the biopharmaceutical industry for drug discovery and development applications, with a focus on gaining hands-on experience through laboratory practices. Advanced techniques such as automated screening and multiplex detection will be covered.
BTEC5380 - Drug Discovery and Development (3)
Previous Code: 	BTEC 538
Vector: 	[2-1-0:3]
Description: 	Overview of methodology employed in identification of lead compounds, drug synthesis and development.  Receptor screening technology for target identification, high-throughput screening for lead identification, and the process for turning lead compounds into marketable drug products.
BTEC5630 - Recombinant DNA Technology and Bioproducts (3)
Previous Code: 	BTEC 563
Vector: 	[2-1-0:3]
Description: 	The course focuses on upstream and downstream processings in biotechnology.  Molecular biology of recombinant DNA techniques, the properties of fermentation broths, the selection of source material or organisms and the separation technology for the recovery of products.
BTEC5760 - Concepts in Bioprocessing (3)
Exclusion: 	CENG 4610 (prior to 2012-13)
Previous Code: 	BTEC 576
Vector: 	[2-1-0:3]
Description: 	Weaves concepts and fundamentals common to various aspects of bioprocessing.  They include the analysis of transport phenomenon in biological systems (for example, immobilized cell or enzyme systems, artificial organs, and drug delivery systems); genetic engineering techniques applied to microorganisms, animals, and plants; and the cellular machinery and process by which biological products are synthesized by the cell.
BTEC6900 - Case Investigation in Biotechnology (3)
Exclusion: 	BTEC 6980 (prior to 2012-13)
Previous Code: 	BTEC 690
Vector: 	[2-1-0:3]
Description: 	Students will review a topic of their choice in an area of biotechnology under the supervision of a faculty member.  An in-depth reading and analysis by the student of the selected topic leading to the submission of a written report, and its presentation in a seminar.
BTEC6930 - Directed Biotechnological Research (4)
Exclusion: 	BTEC 6950 (prior to 2012-13), BTEC 6960 (prior to 2012-13)
Previous Code: 	BTEC 693
Vector: 	[1-0-9:4]
Description: 	Students will undertake a research project of their choice in an area of biotechnology under the supervision of a faculty member.  The results of the research will be presented in a seminar and be formally written in the form of a final report.  For MSc student who can participate in day-time laboratory work only.
BTEC6940 - Advanced Biotechnological Research (4)
Prerequisite: 	BTEC 6930
Vector: 	[0-1-9:4]
Description: 	Students will undertake a research project in an area of biotechnology under the supervision of a faculty member. The results of the research will be presented in a seminar and be formally written in the form of a final report. For full time MSc students only.
CBME5320 - Water Quality and Assessment (3)
Exclusion: 	CENG 5320, JEVE 5320
Colist with: 	JEVE 5320
Vector: 	[3-0-0:3]
Description: 	Water quality standards, chemical, physical and biological contaminants in water. General laboratory measurements and instrumental analysis based on optical, electrical and chromatography methods. Toxicity and BOD tests. Pathogenic micro-organisms and microbial examination of water. Environment sampling and quality control and assurance.
CBME5520 - Characterization of Polymers (3)
Vector: 	[3-0-0:3]
Description: 	Gel permeation chromatography, light scattering, scanning electron microscopy, scanning transmission electron microscopy, optical microscopy, nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy, infrared spectroscopy. X-ray diffraction. Thermal analysis, and rheometry.
CBME5820 - Energy, Environment and Sustainable Development (3)
Exclusion: 	CENG 5910, ENEG 5050, JEVE 5820
Colist with: 	JEVE 5820
Vector: 	[3-0-0:3]
Description: 	This course attempts to highlight the basic issues on the relation between material/energy resources, the environment and sustainable development. Potential directions for technological changes on greater efficiency of energy utilization, exploitation of renewable energy, adoption of cleaner environmental practices and waste reduction that can lead to sustainable development will be explored. Management of energy and environment towards sustainability will be introduced.
CBME5830 - Electrochemical Energy Technologies (3)
Vector: 	[3-0-0:3]
Description: 	Electrochemistry fundamentals; thermodynamics; electrokinetics; energy conversion and storage; fuel cells; batteries; supercapacitors; solar cells; electrolyzers; fuel production; CO2 reduction.
CBME5840 - Nanomaterials for Chemical Engineering Applications (3)
Exclusion: 	CENG 5840, NANO 5350
Vector: 	[3-0-0:3]
Description: 	Major routes for the synthesis of nanostructured materials; charaterization of nanomaterials; selected applications of nanomaterials in chemical engineering, such as separation and catalysis.
CBME6980A - Independent Project (3)
Vector: 	[3 credits]
Description: 	An independent project carried out under the supervision of a faculty member.
CBME6980B - Independent Project (6)
Vector: 	[6 credits]
Description: 	An independent project carried out under the supervision of a faculty member.
CENG1000 - Introduction to Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering (3)
Description: 	From chemistry to engineering, molecules to useful products. Physical, chemical and biochemical transformation of materials. Survey of industries related to modern chemical and biomolecular engineering. Basic principles of materials and energy balance. Strategy of molecular synthesis, process selection and design, economic and environmental considerations. Examples taken from a diverse range of products spanning realms of food, consumer products, energy, environment, and medicine. Case studies and team projects on process and product design. For engineering students only.
CENG1010 - Academic and Professional Development I (0)
Exclusion: 	CENG 2000 (prior to 2016-17)
Description: 	Students not studying in the Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering Department may enroll in this course subject to the course instructors approval. This course is designed to provide academic advising to students, to enhance their understanding of the industries relevant to chemical engineers, and to improve their communication skills. Students are required to attend discussion sessions with advisors and selected seminars. Graded P or F.
CENG1600 - Biotechnology and Its Business Opportunities (3)
Attribute:	(S&T)
Description: 	This course gives an introductory overview of biotechnology from both technical and business perspectives. It surveys the current landscape of medical biotechnology, discusses the significant milestones in this field, describes underlying scientific concepts, and emphasizes the impact of innovations on human health and economy. Case studies are used to illustrate the opportunities and limitations in current and future biotechnology development. In addition, experts from industry and academia are invited to give guest lectures on course-related topics.
CENG1980 - Industrial Training (0)
Description: 	A practical training course in an industrial simulated environment. For students of the Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering Department only. Graded P or F.
CENG2110 - Processes Principles (3)
Corequisite: 	CENG 1000
Description: 	Processes and process variables, engineering data. The conservation principle. Material and energy balances on non-reactive and reactive process units and systems, recycle and purge. Unsteady state processes. Cost estimation and profitability analysis. Project evaluation. Cost optimization.
CENG3210 - Separation Processes (3)
Prerequisite: 	CENG 2110 AND CENG 2210
Description: 	Phase equilibria. Ideal and nonideal mixtures. Thermodynamic properties and VLE from equations of state. Liquid-liquid and liquid-solid systems. Stage process, short-cut and rigorous calculations in absorption, distillation or extraction. Continuous contacting processes. Separation sequences. Simulation and design.
CENG3230 - Reaction and Reactor Engineering (3)
Prerequisite: 	CHEM 1010 OR CHEM 1020
Corequisite: 	CENG 2110
Description: 	Stoichiometry and reaction equilibria. Homogeneous reactions kinetics. Mole balances: batch, continuous-stirred tank and plug flow reactors. Collection and analysis of rate data. Catalytic reaction kinetics and isothermal catalytic reactor design. Diffusion effects.
CENG3910 - Chemical Engineering Laboratory I (3)
Corequisite: 	CENG 2110
Description: 	Measurements and instrumentation. Data analysis, error analysis. Safety and risk assessment including PID analysis. Designing, assembling, testing and dissembling selected experimental rigs. Hazard and operability studies. A wide range of process experimentation. Written and oral presentations. Teamwork Training. Language Center Interaction for Report Writing. Library Workshop and Library Exercise.
CENG4000J - Polymer Physics and Advanced Applications (3)
Exclusion: 	CENG 6000H, CBME 5520, CBME 5550
Description: 	In this course, we alternate the discussion in polymer fundamental properties to the advanced applications of polymers with the artful molecular design. Since polymers are composed of long chain molecules. We will start from understanding the polymer chain nature to the relationship of structure and properties, then to the applications.
CENG4130 - Plant Design and Economics (3)
Prerequisite: 	CENG 3120
Description: 	Computer-aided-design and process evaluation.  Risk assessment, qualitative and quantitative assessment.  Hazop, Hazan, FMEA, decision tree, fault tree, reliability.  Toxicity, dispersion, fire, explosion, relief.  Workplace safety.  Plant safety and hazard analysis.  Plant equipment specification and selection.  Cost estimation and profitability analysis.  Project evaluation.  Cost optimization.  Environmental control.
CENG4620 - Bioproducts and Processing (3)
Description: 	Students not studying in the Chemical and Bioproduct Engineering Program may enroll in the course upon instructor's approval. Survey of bioproducts, cellular production hosts, production techniques (bioreactors), separation and purification processes, product formulation, product and process design.
CENG4710 - Environmental Control (3)
Prerequisite: 	CHEM 1010 OR CHEM 1020
Description: 	Wastes from the process industries. Behavior of toxic chemicals in atmospheric, soil and aquatic environments. Adsorption/desorption, air stripping, steam stripping, supercritical extraction. Pyrolysis, biological, catalyzed and uncatalyzed reactions.  Integrated environmental control. Instructor's approval is required for non-CBME students' enrollment in the course.
CENG4911 - Chemical Engineering Project (7)
Prerequisite: 	CENG 3120 AND CENG 3910 AND LANG 2030
Description: 	A one year long final year project involves the application of Chemical Engineering principles to the design, planning, experimental or analytical investigation of current engineering design and research problems. Working in small teams and individually under supervision, students are expected to demonstrate creative and critical powers through choices and decisions made in areas of uncertainty. Students should have normally completed the second year program. Credit load will be spread over the year.
CENG4912 - Chemical and Environmental Engineering Project (7)
Prerequisite: 	CENG 3120 AND CENG 3910 AND LANG 2030
Description: 	A one year long final year project involves the application of Chemical and Environmental Engineering principles to the design, planning, experimental or analytical investigation of current engineering design and research problems.   Working in small teams and individually under supervision, students are expected to demonstrate creative and critical powers through choices and decisions made in areas of uncertainty. Students should have normally completed the second year program. Credit load will be spread over the year.
CENG4913 - Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering Project (7)
Prerequisite: 	CENG 3120 AND CENG 3910 AND LANG 2030
Description: 	A one year long final year project involves the application of Chemical and Bioproduct Engineering principles to the design, planning, experimental or analytical investigation of current engineering design and research problems.   Working in small teams and individually under supervision, students are expected to demonstrate creative and critical powers through choices and decisions made in areas of uncertainty. Students should have normally completed the second year program. Credit load will be spread over the year.
CENG4980J - Investigation Project (3)
Prerequisite: 	CENG 4970
Description: 	Students conduct in-depth experimental or computational investigations on selected topics in one of the departmental research areas. Students work under supervision and are encouraged to use their own initiative to complete an appropriate program of work within the time allocated. Enrollment is subject to approval by department and supervisor. Graded Distinction/Pass/Fail. May be repeated for credits. May be graded PP.
CENG5400 - Advanced Transport Phenomena (3)
Previous Code: 	CENG 540
Vector: 	[3-0-0:3]
Description: 	Mathematical formulation and physical understanding of selected transport phenomena in laminar flow, turbulent heat and mass transfer, and multiphase flow. Dimensional analysis and scaling models. Similarity parameters and asymptotic analysis. Solutions of boundary value problems.
CENG5930 - Electrochemical Energy Technologies (3)
Previous Code: 	CENG 6000E
Vector: 	[3-0-0:3]
Description: 	Electrochemical energy conversion and storage technologies such as fuel cells, batteries, supercapacitors, solar cells, electrolyzers, CO2 reduction, etc. help overcome the energy and environmental problems that have become prevalent in our society. This course will focus on the principles and critical materials for each technology. Cutting-edge research areas as well as electrochemistry fundamentals will be discussed in this course.
CENG6000H - Polymer and Materials Characterization (3)
Exclusion: 	CENG 355, CENG 555, FYTG 5412
Vector: 	[3-0-0:3]
Description: 	The course will first review some basic concepts in polymer physics and polymer chemistry. The course focuses more in polymer and materials characterization and related fabrication toward applications of advanced and functional polymers. The characterization techniques include scanning electron microscopy, transmission electron microscopy, optical microscopy, infrared spectroscopy, X-ray diffraction, surface analysis, thermal analysis, and rheometry, mechanical properties and testing.
CENG6800M - Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering Seminar (0)
Vector: 	[0-1-0:0]
Description: 	Seminar topics presented by students, faculty and guest speakers. Students are expected to attend regularly and demonstrate proficiency in presentation in accordance with the program requirements. Graded P or F.
CENG6900C - Independent Study (1)
Exclusion: 	CENG 6800
Previous Code: 	CENG 690C
Vector: 	[1 credit]
Description: 	Selected topics in chemical engineering studied under the supervision of a faculty member. Graded P or F.
CENG6990 - MPhil Thesis Research (0)
Previous Code: 	CENG 699
Description: 	Master's thesis research supervised by a faculty member.  A successful defense of the thesis leads to the grade Pass.  No course credit is assigned.
CENG7990 - Doctoral Thesis Research (0)
Previous Code: 	CENG 799
Description: 	Original and independent doctoral thesis research.  A successful defense of the thesis leads to the grade Pass.  No course credit is assigned.
CHEM1004 - Chemistry in Everyday Life (3)
Attribute:	(S&T)
Exclusion: 	Level 3 or above in HKDSE 1/2x Chemistry OR HKDSE 1x Chemistry, a passing grade in AL/AS Chemistry, CHEM 1010, CHEM 1020, CHEM 1030, any CHEM courses at or above 2000-level
Description: 	This course is intended for students with very little to no chemistry background. The basic ideas and principles of chemistry will be explained through many examples of everyday life. The course will focus on developing a chemical understanding of the materials and processes that surround us in the world. Many relevant topics will be discussed such as the air, air pollution, global warming, ozone depletion, metals and their uses, minerals and gems, fire and fuels, color and light, food and drinks, household chemical products, polymers and drugs.
CHEM1010 - General Chemistry IA (3)
Prerequisite: 	Level 3 or above in HKDSE 1/2x Chemistry OR CHEM 1004
Exclusion: 	Level 3 or above in HKDSE 1x Chemistry, CHEM 1008, CHEM 1020
Description: 	This course is an introduction to fundamental principles of chemistry for students who have learnt the basic knowledge of chemistry in high school. Topics include atomic structure and periodicity, chemical bonding and molecular structure, basic properties of gases, liquids and solids, chemical kinetics, chemical equilibrium, and basic organic and biological molecules.
CHEM1020 - General Chemistry IB (2)
Prerequisite: 	Level 3 or above in HKDSE 1x Chemistry
Exclusion: 	CHEM 1010
Description: 	This course targets at students who have acquired more advanced knowledge in fundamental Chemistry in high school. Key topics include atomic structure and periodicity, bonding theories, chemical energy, and properties of gases, liquids and solids. Other topics such as chemical kinetics, chemical equilibrium and organic molecules will be briefly reviewed.
CHEM1050 - Laboratory for General Chemistry I (1)
Prerequisite: 	Level 3 or above in HKDSE 1/2x OR level 3 or above in HKDSE 1x Chemistry OR CHEM 1004
Corequisite: 	CHEM 1010 OR CHEM 1020
Description: 	This course is the laboratory class designed for students who enrolled in CHEM 1010 or CHEM 1020. With laboratory experience acquired in this course, students will be able to relate the physical and chemical principles and theories in practice. Experiments on topics such as chemical energetic and chemical equilibrium will be included. Graded P or F.
CHEM2110 - Organic Chemistry I (3)
Prerequisite: 	CHEM 1030
Exclusion: 	CHEM 2111, CHEM 2112 (prior to 2013-14), CHEM 2118 (prior to 2013-14)
Description: 	This is the first part of the organic chemistry course series designed for students taking a major/minor in chemistry/life science under the four-year degree. Topics covered include: structure and bonding; regio-, geometric, and stereoisomerism; polar and radical reactions of alkenes and alkynes; substitution and elimination reactions; synthesis and reactions of alcohols and epoxides.
CHEM2150 - Organic Chemistry Laboratory (1)
Prerequisite: 	(CHEM 1010 OR CHEM 1020) AND CHEM 1050
Corequisite: 	CHEM 2110 OR CHEM 2111
Exclusion: 	CHEM 2151
Description: 	This is the laboratory course designed for students who enrolled in CHEM 2110 and CHEM 2111. Students will perform a series of organic experiments related to the theory learnt in courses. Students will be trained to perform a wide range of basic organic laboratory techniques, operate chemical instruments in laboratory, relate the physical and chemical principles and theory in practice and develop their data interpretation and analyzing skills. Experiments of topics such as esterification and Williamson ether synthesis will be included. For students in the programs under the four-year degree that designate the course as a required course/specified elective.
CHEM2210 - Inorganic Chemistry I (3)
Prerequisite: 	CHEM 1030
Exclusion: 	CHEM 2218 (prior to 2013-14)
Description: 	This course is designed for students who have taken CHEM 1030 under the four-year degree. Key topics include atomic structure, molecular structure and bonding, structures of simple solids, physical techniques in inorganic chemistry, molecular symmetry, acids and bases, introduction to coordination chemistry, electronic structures and spectra of coordination compounds. For students in the programs under the four-year degree that designate the course as required course/specified elective, or students with approval from the instructor.
CHEM2250 - Inorganic Chemistry Laboratory (1)
Prerequisite: 	CHEM 1030
Corequisite: 	CHEM 2210
Description: 	This course is the laboratory course designed for students who enrolled in CHEM 2210. Students will perform a series of inorganic experiments related to the theory learnt in courses. Students will be trained to perform a wide range of basic inorganic laboratory techniques, operate chemical instruments in laboratory, relate the physical and chemical principles and theory in practice and develop their data interpretation and analyzing skills. Experiments of the preparation of different metal complexes and organometallic compounds will be included. For CHEM students under the four-year degree only.
CHEM2310 - Fundamentals of Analytical Chemistry (3)
Prerequisite: 	CHEM 1030
Exclusion: 	CHEM 2311
Description: 	Fundamental and practical aspects of chemical analysis, including titrimetric, electrical and spectroscopic methods, analytical separations by GLC and HPLC.
CHEM2350 - Analytical Chemistry Laboratory (1)
Prerequisite: 	(CHEM 1010 OR CHEM 1020) AND CHEM 1050
Corequisite: 	CHEM 2310 OR CHEM 2311
Description: 	This is the laboratory course corresponding to the lecture courses of CHEM 2310 and CHEM 2311. Experiments covered in this course will be closely connected with the topics covered in the lecture courses, including Beer's law, calibration principle, and some basic simple instrumental techniques such as Fourier Transform Infrared Spectrometry, Gas Chromatography, etc. For students in the programs under the four-year degree that designate this course as required course/specified elective.
CHEM2410 - Physical Chemistry I: Equilibrium Thermodynamics and Statistical Mechanics (3)
Prerequisite: 	CHEM 1030 AND (MATH 1014 OR MATH 1020 OR MATH 1024)
Description: 	The course consists of three parts. The first part covers the mathematical background, multivariable calculus and basic probability. The second part teaches the equilibrium thermodynamics, covering the laws of thermodynamics and thermodynamics functions, with applications to various problems in phase equilibrium, chemical and electrochemical equilibrium. The third part teaches the equilibrium statistical thermodynamics, covering the Boltzmann distribution, the statistical ensembles and partition functions and their relations to thermodynamics functions. For CHEM and ENVS students under the four-year degree or students with instructor's approval.
CHEM2450 - Physical Chemistry Laboratory (1)
Prerequisite: 	CHEM 1030 AND (MATH 1014 OR MATH 1020 OR MATH 1024)
Corequisite: 	CHEM 2410
Description: 	This is the laboratory course corresponding to the lecture course CHEM 2410. The topics of experiments covered in the laboratory course will be related to those taught in the lecture course, such as thermodynamics, etc. For CHEM students under the four-year degree only.
CHEM4120 - Biomolecular Chemistry (3)
Prerequisite: 	CHEM 3120
Description: 	This course will introduce the fundamental chemical principles underlying the structure, properties, and functions of biologically important molecules. Using the chemical concepts of bonding, structure, and structure-reactivity relationships developed in organic chemistry, this course will cover topics on the stereochemistry, structural diversity, physicochemical properties, and reactivity of amino acids, peptides, proteins, nucleic acids, carbohydrates, and lipids to understand the molecular basis of their biological functions. Another major topic of this course is the preparation of these important biological molecules for understanding of their functions and exploitation of their biotechnological and medicinal values, using available organic chemistry methods.
CHEM4140 - Intermediate Organic Chemistry (3)
Prerequisite: 	CHEM 3120
Previous Code: 	CHEM 3130
Description: 	Provides further training in the multistep organic synthesis of natural and unnatural products, and will focus on the retrosynthetic analysis, control of stereochemistry, carbonyl group chemistry, and pericyclic reactions with a brief coverage on new synthetic methodologies for efficient synthesis of compound libraries. A prerequisite for students wishing to take CHEM 5110/5120 as part of their undergraduate program.
CHEM4150 - Biomolecular Synthesis Laboratory (1)
Prerequisite: 	CHEM 3550
Corequisite: 	CHEM 4155
Description: 	This course provides hands-on experience for students in the biomolecular chemistry option. It focuses on synthesis of molecules of biological relevance, such as small-molecule drugs, peptides, and DNA. For CHEM students under the four-year degree only. Students with minor in CHEM may seek instructor’s approval for enrollment in the course.
CHEM4155 - Biomolecular Characterization Laboratory (1)
Prerequisite: 	CHEM 3555
Corequisite: 	CHEM 4150
Description: 	This course provides hands-on experience for students in the biomolecular chemistry option. It focuses on characterization of biologically relevant molecules, mainly nucleic acids and proteins. For CHEM students under the four-year degree only. Students with minor in CHEM may seek instructor’s approval for enrollment in the course.
CHEM4250 - Materials Preparation Laboratory (1)
Prerequisite: 	CHEM 3550
Corequisite: 	CHEM 4255
Description: 	This is a laboratory course for students to gain hands-on experiences in the preparation of modern materials. Students will have the opportunity to practice the synthesis of materials such as organic polymers, nanoparticles and solid materials. For CHEM students under the four-year degree only. Students with minor in CHEM may seek instructor’s approval for enrollment in the course.
CHEM4255 - Materials Characterization Laboratory (1)
Prerequisite: 	CHEM 3555
Corequisite: 	CHEM 4250
Description: 	This is a laboratory course for students to gain hands-on experiences in the characterization of modern materials. The characterization techniques include thermal analysis, gel permeation chromatography, viscosity, FT-IR, fluorescence spectrometry, and X-ray diffraction. For CHEM students under the four-year degree only. Students with minor in CHEM may seek instructor’s approval for enrollment in the course.
CHEM4320 - Environmental Analytical Chemistry (3)
Prerequisite: 	CHEM 2310 OR CHEM 2311
Description: 	Topics covered include fundamentals of sampling issues, sample pretreatment techniques, water Analysis of major and trace constituents; determination of inorganic and organic gas pollutants, Atmospheric analysis of particulate matter, determination of soil pollutants, environmental control standards, chemometrics in environmental analysis. For students with major or minor in Chemistry and in Environmental Science only.
CHEM4340 - Bioanalytical Techniques (3)
Prerequisite: 	CHEM 2310 OR CHEM 2311
Previous Code: 	CHEM 3330
Description: 	Topics covered include fundamentals of optical microscopic techniques, protein analysis, enzymatic bioassays; DNA techniques and biomicrofluidic techniques.
CHEM4350 - Environmental Chemistry Laboratory (1)
Prerequisite: 	(CHEM 2310 OR CHEM 2311) AND (CHEM 2350 OR CHEM 2355)
Corequisite: 	CHEM 4355
Description: 	This is a laboratory course for students to gain hands-on experience in collecting and handling environmental samples. Experiments covered in this course will be related to collection, preparation and chemical analysis of various environmental samples. Students should seek instructor’s approval prior to enrollment in the course.
CHEM4355 - Instrumental Analytical Chemistry Laboratory (1)
Prerequisite: 	(CHEM 2310 OR CHEM 2311) AND (CHEM 2350 OR CHEM 2355)
Corequisite: 	CHEM 4350
Description: 	This is a laboratory course for students to gain hands-on experiences in operation of the modern instruments. The instruments include liquid chromatography, gas chromatography, ion chromatography, mass spectrometer, etc. Students should seek instructor’s approval prior to enrollment in the course.
CHEM4430 - Symmetry in Chemistry and Spectroscopy (3)
Prerequisite: 	CHEM 2110 AND CHEM 2210 AND CHEM 2410
Previous Code: 	CHEM 3430
Description: 	Symmetry principle and group theory, molecular spectroscopy, advanced topics in molecular orbital theory and bonding, chemical kinetics.
CHEM4550 - Advanced Synthetic Laboratory (1)
Prerequisite: 	CHEM 3550
Corequisite: 	CHEM 4555
Description: 	This course provides hands-on experience for students in the pure chemistry option. It emphasizes on the advanced lab techniques such as the setup for air sensitive reaction and use of vacuum line. Experiment of different areas like metal catalyzed cross coupling, regiospecific synthesis and preparation of a mimic model of natural catalyst will be included. For CHEM students under the four-year degree only. Students with minor in CHEM may seek instructor’s approval for enrollment in the course.
CHEM4555 - Advanced Molecular Characterization Laboratory (1)
Prerequisite: 	CHEM 3555
Corequisite: 	CHEM 4550
Description: 	This course is designed for chemistry major students who are enrolling in Pure Chemistry option. It provides students hands-on experience in the operation of different instruments including High Performance Liquid Chromatography (HPLC) and Differential Scanning Calorimeter (DSC) for characterization of organic products. For CHEM students under the four-year degree only. Students with minor in CHEM may seek instructor’s approval for enrollment in the course.
CHEM4640 - Chemistry for Advanced Solar Cell Technologies (3)
Prerequisite: 	(for Science students) (CHEM 2110 OR CHEM 2118 (prior to 2013-14)) AND (CHEM 2410 OR CHEM 2418); (for Engineering students) CHEM 2111
Description: 	Solar Cells are considered as one of the most promising renewable energy technologies. Conventional solar cells are based on inorganic materials such as silicon. In the past decade, however, several new solar cell technologies based on organic materials are emerging as promising alternatives to conventional solar cells.  This is an exciting and highly interdisciplinary area involving Chemistry, Physics, Materials Science, and Electronic Engineering. The study on organic solar cells provides an excellent platform for Science and Engineering students to learn about how to do research in a multidisciplinary environment. Another key focus of this course is to improve students' communication and interview skills through in-class presentations and group discussions on cutting-edge technologies.
CHEM4680 - Undergraduate Research (3)
Prerequisite: 	CHEM 2150 AND CHEM 2250
Description: 	Students do original research in accordance with their ability and background, and under the supervision of a faculty. The final course grade is determined based on an oral presentation and a written report to be submitted to a judging committee, which includes the faculty supervisor plus at least one other faculty. Enrollment in the course requires approval of the faculty supervisor.
CHEM4689 - Capstone Project (3)
Prerequisite: 	CHEM 3550 AND CHEM 3555
Corequisite: 	LANG 4012
Exclusion: 	CHEM 4691
Description: 	Under the supervision of a faculty member or teaching staff, students will complete a capstone project which requires the integration of the chemical knowledge learnt from their previous courses. The project can be delivered through the format of literature review, research, or practical study. A written report and an oral presentation are required to document their learning experiences. For CHEM students under the four-year degree only. Students should seek instructor's approval prior to enrollment in the course.
CHEM4691 - Capstone Research I (3)
Prerequisite: 	CHEM 3550 AND CHEM 3555
Corequisite: 	LANG 4012
Exclusion: 	CHEM 4689
Description: 	Students will carry out a research project in one of the Chemistry research laboratories under the supervision of a faculty member. This research-based course provides students an opportunity to integrate and apply their chemical knowledge learnt in regular lecture and laboratory courses. At the end of the course, students are required to submit a written report and deliver an oral presentation to document their learning experiences. For CHEM students only. Students should seek instructor's approval prior to enrollment in the course.
CHEM4692 - Capstone Research II (3)
Prerequisite: 	CHEM 4691
Previous Code: 	CHEM 4690
Description: 	Continuation of research project started in CHEM 4691 and to be conducted under the supervision of a faculty member/teaching staff. A written report and oral presentation are required to document their learning experiences. Students should seek instructor's approval prior to enrollment in the course.
CHEM5110 - Advanced Organic Chemistry I (3)
Previous Code: 	CHEM 511
Vector: 	[3-0-0:3]
Description: 	Mechanism and theory in organic chemistry, molecular orbital theory, structure-activity relationships, isotope effects, solvent effects, neighboring group participation, and reactive intermediates.
CHEM5310 - Advanced Inorganic Chemistry I (3)
Previous Code: 	CHEM 531
Vector: 	[3-0-0:3]
Description: 	Symmetry, group theory; molecular orbitals, electronic states; ligand field theory; electronic structure of metal complexes; theory of bonding and structure of inorganic compounds; chemistry of the elements; major physical methods used in the determination of molecular structure and bonding.
CHEM5340 - Chemical X-ray Crystallography (3)
Previous Code: 	CHEM 534
Vector: 	[3-0-0:3]
Description: 	Applications of X-ray diffraction methods to the determination of crystal structures, including crystal symmetry, reciprocal lattice, intensity of diffraction, the phase problem, and refinement of structure parameters, powder X-ray diffraction analysis.
CHEM5540 - Chemistry for Advanced Materials (3)
Exclusion: 	CHEM 4220, NANO 5100
Colist with: 	NANO 5100
Previous Code: 	CHEM 554
Vector: 	[3-0-0:3]
Description: 	Liquid crystals, light emitters, conducting polymers, photoconductors, photoresists for nano- and microelectronics, nanostructured materials and devices, optical information storage, chromism, and piezo- and pyroelectricity.
CHEM6000M - Chemistry Seminar (1)
Vector: 	[0-1-0:1]
Description: 	Series of seminar topics presented by students, faculty and visiting speakers; may be repeated for credit. Graded P or F.
CHEM6770 - Professional Development in Science (Chemistry) (2)
Vector: 	[0-2-0:2]
Description: 	This two-credit course aims at providing research postgraduate students basic training in ethics, teaching skills, research management, career development, and related professional skills. This course lasts for one year, and is composed of two parts, each consisting of a number of mini-workshops. Part 1 of the course is coordinated by the School; and Part 2 consists of some department-specific workshops which are coordinated by the department. Graded PP, P or F.
CHEM6771 - Professional Enrichment in Chemistry (1)
Exclusion: 	Exclusion(s): CHEM 6770
Vector: 	[0-1-0:1]
Description: 	The one-credit course aims to equip students with basic discipline-specific skills and knowledge for their personal and career development in the chemistry area. Training will be provided in the form of mini-workshops or activities. Graded PP, P or F.
CHEM6980A - Research Project (1)
Previous Code: 	CHEM 698A
Vector: 	[1 credit]
Description: 	An independent research project carried out under the supervision of a faculty member. This course is only available for exchange, visiting and visiting internship students.
CHEM6990 - MPhil Thesis Research (0)
Previous Code: 	CHEM 699
Description: 	Master's thesis research supervised by a faculty member.  A successful defense of the thesis leads to the grade Pass.  No course credit is assigned.
CHEM7990 - Doctoral Thesis Research (0)
Previous Code: 	CHEM 799
Description: 	Original and independent doctoral thesis research.  A successful defense of the thesis leads to the grade Pass.  No course credit is assigned.
CHMS5010 - Chemical Data Analysis (3)
Vector: 	[3-0-0:3]
Description: 	Measurements; Statistical treatment and analysis of Data; Uncertainties; Calibrations; Detection limits; Interferences; Use of Standards and Control Charts; Quality control and assurance; Presentation of data.
CHMS5020 - Elemental Analysis (3)
Vector: 	[3-0-0:3]
Description: 	Atomic spectroscopies; Atomic absorption (AA) atomic emission (AE); Elemental analysis by ICP MS; Isotope analysis. Elemental analysis using X-rays; X-ray Fluorescence (XRF); X-ray Photo-electron Spectroscopy (XPS); Secondary Ion Mass Spectrometey; Energy Dispersive Analysis of X-rays (EDAX); Combustion analysis.
CHMS5030 - Molecular Analysis (3)
Vector: 	[3-0-0:3]
Description: 	Characterization of organic molecules; Mass Spectrometry; Ionization techniques; Mass analysis Protein MS; NMR Spectroscopy; 1H and 13C NMR; Multinuclear experiments; 2D and pulse techniques; Solid state NMR.
CHMS5040 - Separation Methods (3)
Vector: 	[3-0-0:3]
Description: 	Chromatography; Gas chromatography; GC-MS; Liquid chromatography; HPLC; Choice of stationary and mobile phases; Chiral separations; Affinity chromatography; Ion chromatography; Capillary zone electrophoresis; Micro-fluidics.
CHMS5201 - Analytical Instrumentation Laboratory I (3)
Vector: 	[0-1-6:3]
Description: 	Students will choose from an array of experiments involving modern analytical techniques that have been introduced in the core courses. These will include, but not be limited to, separation of mixtures, gc-ms, lc-ms, atomic spectroscopy and elemental analysis, IR and UV spectroscopy, electrochemistry, NMR, powder XRD. Students must attend and write up experimental reports for at least eight laboratory sessions to complete the course. Maybe graded PP.
CHMS5202 - Analytical Instrumentation Laboratory II (3)
Prerequisite: 	CHMS 5201
Vector: 	[0-1-6:3]
Description: 	Students will choose from a further array of experiments, complementary to CHMS 5201, involving analytical techniques that have been introduced in either the core and the elective courses. Students must attend and write up experimental reports for at least eight laboratory sessions to complete the course. Maybe graded PP.
CHMS6980 - Analytical Research Project (3)
Vector: 	[3 credits]
Description: 	Students will undertake a research project in an area related to analytical chemistry under the supervision of a faculty member. Expected time spent on the project (background, planning, execution and write-up/presentation) is 100 hours. Students will submit a written report and the results will be orally presented on completion.
CIEM5310 - Structural Analysis and Design of Tall Buildings (3)
Exclusion: 	CIVL 5310
Previous Code: 	CIEM 531
Vector: 	[3-0-0:3]
Description: 	Integrated treatment of analytical methods and technical aspects in design of tall building structures, including structural modeling, frames, shear walls, outrigger-braced systems, core-walls, tubular structures, and special topics.
CIEM5390 - Coastal Structures Design (3)
Previous Code: 	CIEM 539, CIEM 600J
Vector: 	[3-0-0:3]
Description: 	The course will cover basic wave characteristics, linear wave theory, wave transformation processes, wind-wave generation, coastal processes,  
wave-structure interaction, design procedures and requirements for coastal structures such as seawalls, breakwaters and beaches.
CIEM5460 - Design and Management of Physico/Chemical Processes of Environmental Engineering (3)
Exclusion: 	CIVL 5410, JEVE 5460
Colist with: 	JEVE 5460
Vector: 	[3-0-0:3]
Description: 	Principles, design and management practices of physico/chemical treatment processes for removing contaminants from drinking water and municipal wastewaters; includes coagulation and flocculation, sedimentation, air flotation, centrifugation, filtration, membrane, air stripping, carbon adsorption, disinfection, chemical oxidation processes, operation management and residual management.
CIEM5480 - Wastewater Treatment and Reuse (3)
Exclusion: 	JEVE 5480
Colist with: 	JEVE 5480
Previous Code: 	CIEM 548
Vector: 	[3-0-0:3]
Description: 	Theory and conceptual design of key unit processes and unit operations in domestic wastewater treatment and reuse with emphasis on applications of compact and advanced treatment technologies.
CIEM5630 - Traffic Control Fundamentals and Practice (3)
Exclusion: 	CIVL 5630
Previous Code: 	CIEM 563
Vector: 	[3-0-0:3]
Description: 	Traffic flow fundamentals; microscopic and macroscopic traffic flow characteristics; principle and theory of traffic signal; essential modeling techniques; various traffic signal control models.
CIEM5720 - Advanced Foundation Design (3)
Exclusion: 	CIVL 5720
Previous Code: 	CIEM 572
Vector: 	[3-0-0:3]
Description: 	Current practice of foundation design and analysis, including design and analysis of bulkheads, deep excavation, tieback systems, tunneling in soft ground, buried conduits, lateral pile loading, pier foundations.
CIEM5730 - Fundamentals of Geomechanics (3)
Previous Code: 	CIEM 6000F
Vector: 	[3-0-0:3]
Description: 	The course provides fundamental knowledge in understanding and modeling mechanical behaviors of soils and rocks with emphasis on application in geotechnical analysis and design. The course covers topics including stress-strain-strength behaviors of soils and rocks, elasticity and plasticity theory, critical state soil mechanics, strength criteria for soils and rocks, rock mass classification, joints and rock mass, stability analysis of soil slopes and rock slopes, and stress analysis for underground opening and rock foundation. Commonly used softwares in geotechnical analysis and design are also introduced.
CIEM6000K - Building Information Modeling and Smart Construction (3)
Vector: 	[3-0-0:3]
Description: 	This course will cover the fundamental and technical aspects of building information modeling (BIM) and smart construction. Topics include BIM model creation and sharing, model-based analyses, clash detection, BIM standards and interoperability, BIM project execution plan, BIM for infrastructure, visualization technologies, data mining and knowledge management, decision support system, construction informatics, sensing technologies, and construction robotics.
CIEM6000L - Building Aerodynamics and Wind-Resistant Design of High-Rise Structures (3)
Vector: 	[3-0-0:3]
Description: 	Global wind climate, extreme wind analysis, wind structures near ground, bluff body aerodynamics, wind loads on building structures, wind-induced vibrations and mitigations, wind tunnel test techniques, and wind loading codes.
CIEM6980 - MSc Project (6)
Previous Code: 	CIEM 698
Vector: 	[6 credits]
Description: 	An independent project carried out under the supervision of a faculty member.
CIVL1010 - Academic and Professional Development I (0)
Description: 	A compulsory, one year course for CIVL/CIEV/CIGBM students only. This course is designed to provide academic advising to students and/or to develop students' interpersonal skills in handling technical and non-technical issues in their professional careers. Graded P, PP or F.
CIVL1100 - Discovering Civil and Environmental Engineering (3)
Exclusion: 	CIVL 1110 (prior to 2013-14)
Description: 	A general overview of civil and environmental engineering, infrastructure development and engineering ethics is provided. The course includes both lectures and laboratory sessions, where the laboratory sessions are primarily directed to students who require the development of feasible conceptual solutions for the analysis and design of the basic problems in structural, geotechnical and environmental engineering. For first year engineering students under the four‐year degree curriculum only.
CIVL1140 - Environmental Quality Control and Improvement (3)
Attribute:	(S&T)
Description: 	Introduction to up-to-date environmental issues in both local and global scales; providing essential physical, chemical, biological and societal concepts required to understand the nature of pollution and environmental problems; applying science, engineering, management and social science approaches to solutions to environmental issues that affect our water, air, land, eco-systems, living environment, and sustainable development. The objective of this course is to equip our next generation leaders in different disciplines with enhanced environmental awareness and knowledge of tools and solutions to environmental issues. They will therefore be able to make responsible decisions and actions, with due consideration of the environment and sustainability. Each lesson is divided into two parts. The first part is the introduction and discussion of essential concepts and environmental issues and debates of these issues and will be delivered and guided by the instructor. The second part involves presentations of projects, focus studies, or service learning activities of new, emerging environmental issues selected by student groups, with emphases on solutions to the issues.
CIVL1160 - Civil Engineering and Modern Society (3)
Attribute:	(S&T)(SSC-S&T)
Exclusion: 	CIVL 1100, CIVL 1110 (prior to 2013-14)
Description: 	An introduction to civil engineering practice and infrastructure development, with an emphasis on Hong Kong projects. The basic principles, materials and technology used in typical civil engineering works such as foundations, buildings, bridges, slopes and water supply systems, etc. Infrastructure management and maintenance issues; social-economic aspects of large-scale civil engineering projects such as environmental protection, urban planning and development, etc.
CIVL2010 - Academic and Professional Development II (0)
Description: 	Continuation of CIVL 1010. Graded P, PP or F.
CIVL2020 - Industrial Training (0)
Description: 	A practical training course in an industrial simulated environment. For students of the Civil and Environmental Engineering Department only. Graded P, PP or F.
CIVL2110 - Statics (3)
Prerequisite: 	PHYS 1112 OR PHYS 1312
Corequisite: 	MATH 1014 OR MATH 1020 OR MATH 1024
Exclusion: 	CIVL 2150
Description: 	Application of Newton’s laws to engineering problems; statics of particles; rigid bodies; equivalent systems of forces; equilibrium of rigid bodies; distributed forces; centroids; moments of inertia; analysis of truss & frame structures; axial, shear and bending moment diagrams; friction.
CIVL2120 - Mechanics of Materials (3)
Prerequisite: 	CIVL 2110
Exclusion: 	MECH 2040
Description: 	Analysis of stress, strain and deformation; linear and non-linear material behavior; strain energy; bending of beams, deflection; stability and buckling of compression members; shear and torsional stresses.
CIVL2160 - Modeling Systems with Uncertainties (3)
Corequisite: 	MATH 1014 OR MATH 1020 OR MATH 1024
Exclusion: 	MATH 2411
Description: 	Identification and modeling of non-deterministic problems in civil engineering, and the treatment thereof relative to engineering design and decision making. Development of stochastic concepts and simulation models, and their relevance to real design and decision problems in various areas of civil engineering.
CIVL2810 - Construction Materials (3)
Corequisite: 	CIVL 2120
Description: 	Properties of engineering materials and their relation to the internal structure of materials; includes physical properties of construction materials like portland cement concrete, asphalt, polymers, ferrous metals and non-ferrous metals.
CIVL3010 - Academic and Professional Development III (0)
Description: 	Continuation of CIVL 2010. Graded P, PP or F.
CIVL3310 - Structural Analysis (3)
Prerequisite: 	CIVL 2110 AND CIVL 2120
Description: 	Structural forms and modeling, statically determinate structures, statically indeterminate structures, force and displacement methods, deflections of structures, influence lines, approximate analysis, energy methods.
CIVL3510 - Hydrosystems Engineering (3)
Prerequisite: 	CIVL 2510
Corequisite: 	CIVL 2160
Exclusion: 	CIVL 3520, CIVL 3530
Description: 	This course introduces basic and fundamental knowledge essential to the design and analysis of hydrosystems engineering problems (e,g., water supply, flood control, stormwater drainage, etc.). The course consists of two interrelated parts: hydrology and hydraulics. Hydrology covers various processes of water cycle (including precipitation, infiltration, rainfall-runoff modeling, and flow routings) that produce loads on hydrosystems. Hydraulics, on the other hand, applies fluid mechanics principles to the design and analysis the capacity of hydrosystems infrastructures such as pipe networks and channel networks as well as hydraulic machinery.
CIVL3730 - Fundamentals of Geotechnics (3)
Prerequisite: 	CIVL 2120
Description: 	This course will focus on the geotechnical mechanics and associated soil behavior, including basic engineering geology, characteristics of soils, soil compaction, the principle of effective stress, shear strength of soils, the concept of critical state modeling, permeability, seepage problems, ground settlement and consolidation. The laboratory section consists of five different experiments. For CIVL and CIEV students under the four-year degree only.
CIVL4100E - Climate Modeling and Risk Assessment (3)
Prerequisite: 	MATH 1003 OR MATH 1012 OR MATH 1013 OR MATH 1014 OR MATH 1020 OR MATH 1023 OR MATH 1024
Description: 	The primary aim of this course is to convey fundamental scientific knowledge of the Earth’s climate system, to develop the technical skill for climate modeling and analysis, and to understand the relationship between the impact of climate change and strategies to manage associated risks. Emphasis will be placed on the “practical exercise” for the simulation of future climate in response to anthropogenic greenhouse gases using the web-based global climate model (EdGCM) with a user-friendly interface that can be run on laptop or desktop computer. Through this practice, students will learn full scientific processes related to climate modeling such as experimental design, running simulation, data analysis, and interpretation of results. On this foundation, the latter half of the course will be shifted to the topics for the identification and assessment of the risks from climate extremes. Eventually, students will have familiarity with climate modeling techniques and better sense to grapple with a myriad of complex climate issues.
CIVL4320 - Structural Steel Design (3)
Prerequisite: 	CIVL 3310
Description: 	Limit state design of steel structures, stability analysis of thin-walled members, design of tension members, columns, beams, plate girders, beam-columns, structural connections, plastic analysis and design.
CIVL4380 - Introduction to Wind Effects on Buildings and Structures (3)
Exclusion: 	CIVL 5370
Description: 	Basic meteorology, structure of wind near the ground, wind induced vibrations, wind loading codes, wind tunnel test techniques.
CIVL4440 - Environmental Systems Analysis (3)
Prerequisite: 	CIVL 2410 OR ENVR 2010
Previous Code: 	CIVL 4100B
Description: 	This course introduces principles of systems analysis for the planning and management of the environment. The course aims to provide students with the ability to define environmental systems, evaluate alternatives for making optimal decisions, and develop sustainable solutions. Simple to complex case studies are used to present concepts of environmental modeling and single-objective optimization to identify best strategies for environmental quality control. Concepts of multi-objective optimization and Pareto efficiency are also presented for solving problems with conflicting economic and environmental goals. These key concepts are applied to a selection of environmental problems, including problems of water and air quality, solid waste management, and climate change.
CIVL4450 - Carbon Footprint Analysis and Reduction (3)
Prerequisite: 	CIVL 2410 OR ENVR 3210
Previous Code: 	CIVL 4100A
Description: 	This course aims to provide students with an understanding of the sources and impacts of climate change, national and international policies, Kyoto Protocol, carbon credits and offset concepts. As engineers to be, students will also be able to calculate organization's carbon footprint, identify suitable mitigation strategies and provide carbon reduction solutions.
CIVL4460 - Process Design of Environmental Engineering Facilities (3)
Prerequisite: 	CIVL 3420
Description: 	Basic principles in the process design of environmental engineering facilities, such as water and wastewater treatment systems, pump station, as well as sanitary landfill disposal.
CIVL4470 - Air Quality Control and Management (3)
Exclusion: 	MECH 4210 (prior to 2013-14)
Description: 	Historical and health impact studies related to air pollution.  Atmospheric stability and its impact on the transport and dispersion of pollutants.  Sources of major air pollutants.  Comparison of urban, industrial and transport related air pollution issues, using Hong Kong and Pearl River Delta as examples.  Control of stationary and mobile emission sources.  Air quality management - framework, policy tools and comparison of different approaches.
CIVL4520 - Municipal Hydrosystems Engineering and Management (3)
Prerequisite: 	CIVL 2160 and CIVL 3520 and CIVL 3530 and IELM 3020 (prior to 2014-15)
Description: 	The course integrates the knowledge of hydrology, hydraulics, statistics, economics, and optimization in the dealing with municipal hydrosystems engineering and management. In particular, focuses will be given to quantity aspect of water supplies and water excesses. The hydrosystems to be covered include water distribution, urban sewage and stormwater drainage, reservoirs/detention facilities, pumps, etc.
CIVL4620 - Transportation System Operations (3)
Prerequisite: 	CIVL 3610 or CIVL 3620
Description: 	Transportation economics, land use and transportation system, queuing theory and traffic flow analysis, intersection control and design, urban transit operations and management.
CIVL4700 - Engineering Geology (3)
Previous Code: 	CIVL 3700
Description: 	This course introduces fundamental knowledge in engineering geology and related engineering topics, including the earth system and tectonics, rock-forming minerals and clay minerals, igneous / sedimentary / metamorphic rocks, structural geology, earthquakes, surface processes and soil formation. It also includes field trips to Hong Kong GeoParks.
CIVL4750 - Numerical Solutions to Geotechnical Problems (3)
Description: 	Use of specific and general-purpose computer software to solve common geotechnical problems associated with empirical relationships, seepage, consolidation, pile applications, excavations, and general soil behavior.  Brief introductions to and applications of finite difference, finite element and other numerical solution techniques are included.
CIVL4900A - Directed Studies (1)
Previous Code: 	CIVL 390A
Description: 	Specialist courses where instruction is generally given on a one-to-one basis. Graded P or F.
CIVL4910 - Civil and Environmental Engineering Final Year Project (6)
Exclusion: 	CIVL 4920
Description: 	The two-term Final Year Project involves applications of civil and environmental engineering principles to the design, planning, experimental or analytical investigation of current engineering design and research problems. The credit load will be spread over two terms. For CIVL and CIEV students in their final year of study only. May be graded PP.
CIVL4950 - Civil Engineering Capstone Design Project (3)
Corequisite: 	LANG 4033
Description: 	This course transforms engineering students into student engineers through execution of a full-scale authentic design project, under the direct guidance of a team of professional engineers. The capstone project involves the integration of prior design knowledge, teamwork and communication skills to make competent design decisions in civil engineering workplace. Design topics may include project planning, feasibility studies, environmental impact assessments, site development, foundation design, structural design, transportation engineering, cost estimating, contract document preparation, and construction project management. Students should have successfully completed the third year of undergraduate study.
CIVL5220 - Construction Information Technology (3)
Previous Code: 	CIVL 6100B
Vector: 	[3-0-0:3]
Description: 	This course covers the principles and applications of information technology for construction management. Topics include building information modeling, database management and implementation, web-based communication and project management technologies, decision support systems, knowledge management, and data processing and analysis.
CIVL5310 - Structural Analysis and Design of Tall Buildings (3)
Exclusion: 	CIEM 5310
Previous Code: 	CIVL 531
Vector: 	[3-0-0:3]
Description: 	Integrated treatment of analytical methods and technical aspects in design of tall building structures; includes structural modeling, frames, shear walls, outrigger-braced systems, core-walls, tubular structures, and special topics.
CIVL5350 - Bridge Engineering (3)
Previous Code: 	CIVL 603C
Vector: 	[3-0-0:3]
Description: 	This course introduces the limit states design method for bridges, discusses the design philosophy and code requirements and presents examples of analysis and design of bridge super-structure components (using the limit states design method).
CIVL5460 - Landfill Engineering and Design (3)
Prerequisite: 	CIVL 2410
Previous Code: 	CIVL 546
Vector: 	[3-0-0:3]
Description: 	Practical aspects of solid waste collection methods and equipment, current available disposal techniques with emphasis on complete engineering design of landfill systems, and landfill leachate treatment will be included.
CIVL5470 - Industrial Wastewater Treatment (3)
Prerequisite: 	CIVL 3420
Exclusion: 	JEVE 5470
Previous Code: 	CIVL 547
Vector: 	[3-0-0:3]
Description: 	Procedures for industrial surveys; includes waste sampling, waste characterization, treatability studies, selection of treatment methods for achieving cost effective operation, case studies of selected types of industrial waste treatment.
CIVL5610 - Urban Transportation Networks Analysis (3)
Previous Code: 	CIVL 561
Vector: 	[3-0-0:3]
Description: 	Reviews transportation planning models and traffic analysis; examines the assignment of traffic flow on a network according to user-equilibrium and system optimal objectives; addresses formulation methods and solution techniques.
CIVL5630 - Traffic Control Fundamentals (3)
Exclusion: 	CIEM 5630
Previous Code: 	CIVL 563
Vector: 	[3-0-0:3]
Description: 	Traffic flow fundamentals; microscopic and macroscopic traffic flow characteristics; principle and theory of traffic signals; essential modeling techniques; various traffic signal control models.
CIVL5710 - Advanced Soil Mechanics (3)
Previous Code: 	CIVL 571
Vector: 	[3-0-0:3]
Description: 	Selected topics from recent advances in theoretical and experimental development in soil mechanics; includes stress-strain behavior of soil, consolidation settlement, drained and undrained strength slope stability problems.
CIVL5750 - Geotechnical Earthquake Engineering and Soil Dynamics (3)
Previous Code: 	CIVL 575
Vector: 	[3-0-0:3]
Description: 	Earthquakes and characterization of ground motions, seismicity assessment, soil dynamics and site response analysis, soil liquefaction assessment and post-liquefaction analysis, seismic analysis of slopes and embankments, lateral earth pressures and retaining systems, dynamic soil-structure interaction.
CIVL5760 - Geotechnical Site Characterization (3)
Previous Code: 	CIVL 576, CIVL 607D
Vector: 	[3-0-0:3]
Description: 	Presents state-of-the-art geotechnical site characterization methodologies; includes basic principles of site characterization planning, drilling and sampling, soil and rock description, cone penetration test, standard penetration test, pressuremeter test, dilatometer test, geophysical methods, permeability and ground water monitoring, and fundamentals of geostatistics.
CIVL5770 - Unsaturated Soil Mechanics and Engineering (3)
Prerequisite: 	CIVL 3740 or equivalent
Exclusion: 	CIEM 5770
Previous Code: 	CIVL 577
Vector: 	[3-0-0:3]
Description: 	Fundamental principles, stress state variables, steady-state and transient flows, theory of shear strength and its measurements, soil stiffness, plastic and limit equilibrium analyses of earth pressures, slope stability and bearing capacity, critical state framework, instrumentation, engineering applications on slopes including static liquefaction of loose fill slopes, foundations, forensic studies such as slope failures.
CIVL6010A - Directed Studies (1)
Previous Code: 	CIVL 610A
Vector: 	[1 credit]
Description: 	Specialist courses where instruction is generally on a one-to-one basis. Graded P or F.
CIVL6010G - Directed Studies (3)
Vector: 	[3 credits]
Description: 	Specialist courses where instruction is generally on a one-to-one basis. Graded P or F.
CIVL6050N - Civil Engineering Seminar I (0)
Vector: 	[1-0-0:0]
Description: 	Discussion of current research by faculty members, and guest lectures on recent advances in civil engineering. Graded P or F.
CIVL6060T - Civil Engineering Seminar II (0)
Vector: 	[1-0-0:0]
Description: 	Presentation of current graduate research by postgraduate students. Graded P or F.
CIVL6100H - Fluid Transients and Model-Based Detection of Anomalies (3)
Prerequisite: 	Hydraulics or a second course of fluid mechanics, differential equations, computer programming perferrable
Vector: 	[3-0-0:3]
Description: 	This course is about transients in pressurized water conveyance and distribution systems. It has four objectives: (1) gain an understanding of the phenomenon, (2) be able to model transients in systems, (3) know how to avoid harmful transients in system design and operation, and (4) use transient model(s) to detect anomalies. Instructor's consent is needed.
CIVL6770 - Professional Development in Civil and Environmental Engineering (1)
Vector: 	[0-1-0:1]
Description: 	This one-credit course aims at providing research postgraduate students with basic training in teaching skills, research management, career development, and related professional skills. This course consists of a number of mini-workshops. Some department-specific workshops will be coordinated by Department of CIVL. Graded PP, P or F.
CIVL6990 - MPhil Thesis Research (0)
Previous Code: 	CIVL 699
Description: 	Master's thesis research supervised by a faculty member.  A successful defense of the thesis leads to the grade Pass.  No course credit is assigned.
CIVL7990 - Doctoral Thesis Research (0)
Previous Code: 	CIVL 799
Description: 	Original and independent doctoral thesis research.  A successful defense of the thesis leads to the grade Pass.  No course credit is assigned.
COMP1001 - Exploring Multimedia and Internet Computing (3)
Attribute:	(S&T)
Exclusion: 	ISOM 2010, any COMP courses of 2000-level or above
Description: 	This course is an introduction to computers and computing tools. It introduces the organization and basic working mechanism of a computer system, including the development of the trend of modern computer system. It covers the fundamentals of computer hardware design and software application development. The course emphasizes the application of the state-of-the-art software tools to solve problems and present solutions via a range of skills related to multimedia and internet computing tools such as internet, e-mail, WWW, webpage design, computer animation, spread sheet charts/figures, presentations with graphics and animations, etc. The course also covers business, accessibility, and relevant security issues in the use of computers and Internet.
COMP1021 - Introduction to Computer Science (3)
Attribute:	(QR)
Exclusion: 	COMP 1002 (prior to 2013-14), COMP 1004 (prior to 2013-14), COMP 1022P, COMP 1022Q, COMP 2011
Description: 	This course introduces students to the world of Computer Science. Students will experience a range of fun and interesting areas from the world of computing, such as game programming, web programming, user interface design and computer graphics. These will be explored largely by programming in the Python language.
COMP1022P - Introduction to Computing with Java (3)
Attribute:	(QR)
Exclusion: 	COMP 1002 (prior to 2013-14), COMP 1004 (prior to 2013-14), COMP 1021, COMP 1022Q,  COMP 2011, ISOM 3320
Description: 	This course is designed to equip students with the fundamental concepts of programming elements and data abstraction using Java. Students will learn how to write procedural programs using variables, arrays, control statements, loops, recursion, data abstraction and objects using an integrated development environment.
COMP1022Q - Introduction to Computing with Excel VBA (3)
Attribute:	(QR)
Exclusion: 	COMP 1002 (prior to 2013-14), COMP 1004 (prior to 2013-14), COMP 1021, COMP 1022P, COMP 2011, ISOM 3230
Description: 	This course is designed to equip students with the fundamental concepts of programming using the VBA programming language, within the context of the Microsoft Excel program. Students will first learn how to use Excel to analyze and present data, and will then learn how to use VBA code to build powerful programs.
COMP1029A - Introduction to Mobile Application Development Using Android (1)
Prerequisite: 	COMP 1002 (prior to 2013-14) OR COMP 1004 (prior to 2013-14) OR COMP 1021 OR COMP 1022P OR COMP1022Q
Previous Code: 	COMP 4901C
Description: 	This course provides a basic introduction to mobile application development using the Android platform. It is intended for students who have some prior programming experience, but wish to learn the basics of mobile application development. The course will introduce them to the Android SDK and development environment, Android application components: Activities and their lifecycle, UI design, Multimedia, and 2D graphics support in Android. Students explore these concepts through self-learning course materials and guided laboratory exercises. Graded P or F.
COMP1029C - C Programming Bridging Course (1)
Prerequisite: 	COMP 1021 OR COMP 1022P OR COMP 1022Q OR ISOM 3230 OR ISOM 3320
Exclusion: 	COMP 1002 (prior to 2013-14), COMP 1004 (prior to 2013-14), COMP 2011
Description: 	This course introduces the C programming language. It is intended for students who already have some experience in computer programming but wish to learn how to apply those programming skills to the C language. The course covers basic programming topics, such as variables, control, loops, and functions, to more advanced topics. Students explore these by self-learning of course materials together with guided programming exercises. Students without the prerequisites but possess relevant programming knowledge may seek instructor's approval for enrolling in the course. Graded P or F.
COMP1029J - Java Programming Bridging Course (1)
Prerequisite: 	COMP 1002 (prior to 2013-14) OR COMP 1004 (prior to 2013-14) OR COMP 1021 OR COMP 1022Q OR ISOM 3230
Exclusion: 	COMP 1022P, COMP 3021, ISOM 3320
Description: 	This course introduces the Java programming language. It is intended for students who already have some experience in computer programming but wish to learn how to apply those programming skills to the Java language. The course covers basic programming topics such as variables, control statements, loops, functions, and object-oriented programming concepts. Students explore these by self-learning of course materials together with guided programming exercises. Students without the prerequisites but possess relevant programming knowledge may seek instructor's approval for enrolling in the course. Graded P or F.
COMP1029P - Python Programming Bridging Course (1)
Prerequisite: 	COMP 1002 (prior to 2013-14) OR COMP 1004 (prior to 2013-14) OR COMP 1022P OR COMP 1022Q OR ISOM 3230 OR ISOM 3320
Exclusion: 	COMP 1021
Description: 	This course introduces the Python programming language. It is intended for students who already have some experience in computer programming but wish to learn how to apply those programming skills to the Python language. The course covers basic programming topics, such as variables, functions and loops, to more advanced topics. Students explore these by self-learning of course materials together with guided programming exercises. Students without the prerequisites but possess relevant programming knowledge may seek instructor's approval for enrolling in the course. Graded P or F.
COMP1029V - Excel VBA Programming Bridging Course (1)
Prerequisite: 	COMP 1002 (prior to 2013-14) OR COMP 1004 (prior to 2013-14) OR COMP 1021 OR COMP 1022P OR ISOM 3320
Exclusion: 	COMP 1022Q, ISOM 3230
Description: 	This course introduces the VBA programming language, in the context of Microsoft Excel. It is intended for students who already have some experience in computer programming but wish to learn how to apply those programming skills to VBA, within Excel. The course covers basic programming topics, such as variables, functions and loops, to more advanced topics. Appropriate features of the Excel program are also covered. Students explore these by self-learning of course materials together with guided programming exercises. Students without the prerequisites but possess relevant programming knowledge may seek instructor's approval for enrolling in the course. Graded P or F.
COMP1991 - Industrial Experience (0)
Description: 	Full-time internship training for a period of at least six weeks in an organization or company recognized by the Department for providing qualified internship training relevant to the computer science and engineering profession. Cantonese or other working languages may be used in off-campus trainings and internships, in some situations. For students of the Department of Computer Science and Engineering in their second year of study or above only. Internship coordinator's approval is required for enrollment in the course. Graded P, PP or F.
COMP2011 - Introduction to Object-oriented Programming (4)
Prerequisite: 	COMP 1021 OR COMP 1022P OR COMP 1022Q OR ISOM 3230
Exclusion: 	COMP 1004 (prior to 2013-14)
Description: 	This course is an introduction to object-­‐oriented programming and data structures. Students will learn abstract data types and their implementation as classes in an object-­‐oriented programming language; static and dynamic construction and destruction of objects; data member and member functions; public interface and encapsulation. It will cover data structures such as stacks, queues, linked lists, and binary trees.
COMP2012 - Object-Oriented Programming and Data Structures (4)
Prerequisite: 	COMP 1004 (prior to 2013-14) OR COMP 2011
Exclusion: 	COMP 2012H
Description: 	To learn the fundamental concepts and techniques behind object-oriented programming.  They include: abstract data types; creation, initialization, and destruction of objects; class hierarchies; polymorphism, inheritance and dynamic binding; generic programming using templates.  To learn the object-oriented view of data structures: linked lists, queues, stacks, trees, and algorithms such as searching, sorting, and hashing algorithms.
COMP2012H - Honors Object-Oriented Programming and Data Structures (5)
Prerequisite: 	Grade A or above in COMP 1002 (prior to 2013-14) / COMP 1021 / COMP 1022P / COMP 1022Q / ISOM 3230
Exclusion: 	COMP 1004 (prior to 2013-14), COMP 2011, COMP 2012
Description: 	This course is an accelerated and intensive course on concepts and techniques behind object-oriented programming (OOP) and data structures using an OOP language. It covers the major materials of COMP2011 and COMP2012, and its curriculum is designed for students with excellent programming background or substantial programming experience. Topics include: functions; pointers; abstract data types and their class implementation; static and dynamic construction and destruction of objects; data member and member functions; public interface and encapsulation; class hierarchies; polymorphism; inheritance and dynamic binding; standard template library; generic programming using templates; object-oriented view of data structures: linked lists, queues, stacks, trees, and their algorithms such as searching, sorting and hashing.
COMP2521 - Mobile Application Development Projects (3)
Previous Code: 	COMP 4901E
Description: 	This course is intended to bring together students from different disciplines to focus on coming up with innovative mobile solutions to address domain-specific problems. This will be a student-led project-based course. Teams of students will focus on developing applications to address the needs of specific application domains. Learning additional technical knowledge will be demand-driven in self-learning mode. Students will be supported by technical advisors, which include a faculty member who is the main instructor, as well as instructional assistant(s) and student
helpers with technical knowledge.
COMP2611 - Computer Organization (4)
Prerequisite: 	COMP 1004 (prior to 2013-14) OR COMP 2011 OR COMP 2012H
Exclusion: 	ELEC 2300
Description: 	Inner workings of modern digital computer systems and tradeoffs at the hardware-software interface. Topics include: instructions set design, memory systems, input-output systems, interrupts and exceptions, pipelining, performance and cost analysis, assembly language programming, and a survey of advanced architectures.
COMP2711 - Discrete Mathematical Tools for Computer Science (4)
Attribute:	(QR)
Prerequisite: 	A passing grade in AL Pure Mathematics/AL Applied Mathematics; OR level 3 or above in HKDSE Mathematics Extended Module M1/M2
Corequisite: 	(For students without prerequisites) MATH 1012 OR MATH 1013 OR MATH 1014 OR MATH 1018 (prior to 2013-14) OR MATH 1020 OR MATH 1023 OR MATH 1024
Exclusion: 	COMP 2711H, MATH 2343
Description: 	Basic concepts in discrete mathematics needed for the study of computer science: enumeration techniques, basic number theory, logic and proofs, recursion and recurrences, probability theory and graph theory. The approach of this course is specifically computer science application oriented.
COMP2711H - Honors Discrete Mathematical Tools for Computer Science (4)
Prerequisite: 	Grade B or above in AL Pure Mathematics/AL Applied Mathematics; OR level 5* or above in HKDSE Mathematics Extended Module M1/M2; OR grade A- or above in MATH 1014; OR grade B+ or above in MATH 1020 / MATH 1024
Exclusion: 	COMP 2711, MATH 2343
Description: 	Discrete mathematics needed for the study of computer science: sets, functions; propositional logic, predicate logic, rules of inference, proof techniques; pigeonhole principle, basic and generalized permutations and combinations, binomial coefficients, inclusion-exclusion principle; probability theory, Bayes theorem, expectation, variance, random variables, hashing; cryptography and modular arithmetic, Euclid’s division theorem, multiplicative inverse, divisibility, RSA cryptosystem, Chinese remainder theorem; mathematical induction, strong induction and well-ordering property, recursion, recurrence relations; graph representation, isomorphism, connectivity, Euler paths, Hamilton paths, planarity, graph coloring. Gentle introduction to many discrete mathematical concepts that will appear later in more advanced computer science courses.
COMP3021 - Java Programming (3)
Prerequisite: 	COMP 2012 OR COMP 2012H
Exclusion: 	ISOM 3320
Description: 	Introduction to Java programming. Fundamentals include language syntax, object-oriented programming, inheritance, polymorphism, exception handling, multithreading. Standard libraries for input/output, graphics programming, built-in data structures. Programming for events, web, networking, generics.
COMP3031 - Principles of Programming Languages (3)
Prerequisite: 	COMP 2012 OR COMP 2012H
Description: 	Comparative studies of programming languages, programming language concepts and constructs. Non-imperative programming paradigms: object-oriented, functional, logic, concurrent programming. Basic concepts of program translation and interpretation. Storage allocation and run-time organization.
COMP3111 - Software Engineering (4)
Prerequisite: 	COMP 2012 OR COMP 2012H
Exclusion: 	COMP 3111H, ISOM 3210, RMBI 4420 (prior to 2016-17)
Colist with: 	COMP 3111H
Description: 	Methods and tools for planning, designing, implementing, validating, and maintaining large software systems. Project work to build a software system as a team, using appropriate software engineering tools and techniques.
COMP3111H - Honors Software Engineering (4)
Prerequisite: 	Grade A- or above in COMP 2012 / COMP 2012H
Exclusion: 	COMP 3111, ISOM 3210, RMBI 4420 (prior to 2016-17)
Colist with: 	COMP 3111
Description: 	General methodologies, techniques, and tools for planning, designing, implementing, validating, and maintaining large-scale software systems. Collaborative development environment, automatic static analysis, and testing techniques. Open source project development methodologies and techniques.
COMP3211 - Fundamentals of Artificial Intelligence (3)
Prerequisite: 	COMP 2011 OR COMP 2012 OR COMP 2012H
Exclusion: 	COMP 5211
Description: 	Foundations underlying design of intelligent systems. Relations between logical, statistical, cognitive, biological paradigms; basic techniques for heuristic search, theorem proving, knowledge representation, adaptation; applications in vision, language, planning, expert systems.
COMP3311 - Database Management Systems (3)
Prerequisite: 	COMP 2011 OR COMP 2012 OR COMP 2012H
Exclusion: 	COMP 5311, IELM 3300, ISOM 3260
Description: 	Principles of database systems; conceptual modeling and data models; logical and physical database design; query languages and query processing; database services including concurrency, crash recovery, security and integrity. Hands-on DBMS experience.
COMP3511 - Operating Systems (3)
Prerequisite: 	COMP 2611 OR [ELEC 2300 AND (COMP 1002 (prior to 2013-14) OR COMP 1004 (prior to 2013-14) OR COMP 2011 OR COMP 2012H)]
Description: 	Principles, purpose and structure of operating systems; processes, threads, and multi-threaded programming; CPU scheduling; synchronization, mutual exclusion; memory management and virtual memory; device management; file systems, security and protection.
COMP3632 - Principles of Cybersecurity (3)
Prerequisite: 	COMP 2012 OR COMP 2012H
Description: 	This course is an introduction to the principles of cybersecurity. Cybersecurity, also called computer security or IT security, refers to the study of techniques to protect computing systems from attacks that threaten data confidentiality, system integrity and availability. By modeling, analyzing, and evaluating the security of computer systems, students will learn to find weaknesses in software, hardware, networks, data storage systems, mobile applications, and the Internet, and identify current security practices and defenses to protect these systems.
COMP3711 - Design and Analysis of Algorithms (3)
Prerequisite: 	(COMP 2011 OR COMP 2012 OR COMP 2012H) AND (COMP 2711 OR COMP 2711H OR MATH 2343)
Exclusion: 	COMP 3711H
Description: 	Techniques for designing algorithms, proving their correctness, and analyzing their running times. Topics covered include: sorting, selection, heaps, balanced search trees, divide-and-conquer, greedy algorithms, dynamic programming, and graph algorithms.
COMP3711H - Honors Design and Analysis of Algorithms (4)
Prerequisite: 	(Grade B+ or above in  COMP 2011 / COMP 2012 / COMP 2012H) AND (grade A- or above in COMP 2711 / COMP 2711H / MATH 2343)
Exclusion: 	COMP 3711
Description: 	Techniques for designing algorithms, proving their correctness, and analyzing their running times. Topics covered include: sorting, selection, heaps, balanced search trees, divide-and-conquer, greedy algorithms, dynamic programming, and graph algorithms. The class will also provide an introduction to advanced techniques such as amortized analysis and the design of randomized and approximation algorithms, as well as providing exposure to more advanced algorithmic solutions to optimization problems, e.g. linear programming and network flow.
COMP3721 - Theory of Computation (3)
Prerequisite: 	(COMP 3711 OR COMP 3711H) AND (MATH 2111 OR MATH 2121 OR MATH 2350)
Description: 	This course is an introduction to the foundation of computation. Topics covered include set theory and  countability, formal languages, finite automata and regular languages, pushdown automata and context-free languages, Turing machines, undecidability, P and NP, NP completeness.
COMP4021 - Internet Computing (3)
Prerequisite: 	COMP 2012 OR COMP 2012H
Description: 	Technologies and standards for World Wide Web (WWW), user interfaces and Browsers, authoring tools, Internet protocols, Internet servers, database connectivity, Robots, Search engines, server-side programming, client-side programming, security and privacy, recent advances.
COMP4311 - Principles of Database Design (3)
Prerequisite: 	COMP 3311
Exclusion: 	ISOM 3260
Description: 	Data modeling concepts; conceptual, logical and physical design; analyzing, evaluating and improving schemas; schema documentation and maintenance; functional analysis; design tools; schema mappings; database tuning; distributed database design.
COMP4331 - Data Mining (3)
Prerequisite: 	IELM 2510 OR ISOM 2500 OR LIFS 3150 OR MATH 2411
Exclusion: 	COMP 4211, ISOM 3360
Description: 	This course will provide an introduction to concepts and techniques in the field of data mining. Materials include an introduction to data warehousing and OLAP, data preprocessing and the techniques used to explore the large quantities of data for the discovery of predictive models and knowledge. The course will include techniques such as nearest neighbor, decision tress, neural networks, Bayesian networks and Naive Bayes, rule-based methods, association analysis and clustering, as well as social networks and data mining applications in business and finance applications, and other emerging data mining subareas. Students learn the materials by attending lectures and implementing and applying different data analysis and mining techniques to large datasets throughout the semester.
COMP4421 - Image Processing (3)
Prerequisite: 	(COMP 2011 OR COMP 2012 OR COMP 2012H) AND (MATH 2011 OR MATH 2111 OR MATH 2350 OR MATH 2351 OR MATH 2352)
Exclusion: 	ELEC 4130, MATH 4336
Description: 	Introduction to image processing. Topics include image processing and analysis in spatial and frequency domains, image restoration and compression, image segmentation and registration, morphological image processing, representation and description, object recognition, related application areas and some other closely related topics. Some sophisticated image processing and analysis tools and state-of-the-art methods may also be introduced subject to the availability of time.
COMP4461 - Human-Computer Interaction (3)
Prerequisite: 	COMP 2011
Previous Code: 	COMP 4901G
Description: 	This course is a broad introduction to Human-Computer Interaction (HCI), with an emphasis on techniques, models, theories, and applications for designing, prototyping, and evaluating current and future interactive systems for human use. HCI is an interesting and important area of study, providing the human perspective to computing. Besides technology and innovation, it also touches on issues like ethics and social responsibilities related to technologies in the real world. Selected topics include multimodal interaction design, usability evaluation, computer-supported cooperative work, assistive technologies, social computing, crowd computing, ubiquitous/mobile computing, virtual/augmented reality and gaming, agents and robots, and HCI applications in various domains such as education, health, urban sustainability, scientific discoveries, etc.
COMP4621 - Computer Communication Networks I (3)
Prerequisite: 	COMP 3511
Exclusion: 	COMP 5621, ELEC 4120, ISOM 3180
Description: 	Principles of computer network architectures and communication protocols; the OSI reference model; switching and multiplexing techniques; data link, network, transport and application layers; LAN and medium access protocols; network programming.
COMP4651 - Cloud Computing and Big Data Systems (3)
Prerequisite: 	COMP 2011 OR COMP 2012H
Description: 	Big data systems, including Cloud Computing and parallel data processing frameworks, emerge as enabling technologies in managing and mining the massive amount of data across hundreds or even thousands of commodity servers in datacenters. This course exposes students to both the theory and hands-on experience of this new technology. The course will cover the following topics. (1) Basic concepts of Cloud Computing and production Cloud services; (2) MapReduce - the de facto datacenter-scale programming abstraction - and its open source implementation of Hadoop. (3) Apache Spark - a new generation parallel processing framework - and its infrastructure, programming model, cluster deployment, tuning and debugging, as well as a number of specialized data processing systems built on top of Spark. By walking through a number of hands-on labs and assignments, students are expected to gain first-hand experience programming on real world clusters in production datacenters.
COMP4900 - Academic and Professional Development (0)
Description: 	This course is for academic and professional development of students in the programs offered by the Department of Computer Science and Engineering. Activities may include seminars, workshops, advising and sharing sessions, interaction with faculty and teaching staff, and discussion with student peers or alumni. Graded P/PP/F.
COMP4901J - Deep Learning for Computer Vision (3)
Prerequisite: 	(COMP 2012 OR COMP 2012H) AND (COMP 3711 OR COMP 3711H)
Description: 	The impact of computer vision has become increasing relevant in our daily life, with applications ranging from content-based retrieval, image understanding, to cartography, medicine, drones, and self-driving cars. Recent developments in neural network (aka "deep learning") approaches have greatly advanced the performance of these state-of-the-art visual recognition systems. This course will investigate common deep learning architectures with a focus on learning end-to-end models for computer vision tasks. For third and fourth year students only.
COMP4971A - Independent Work (1)
Previous Code: 	COMP 390A
Description: 	Independent studies or projects under the directed guidance of a faculty member on a computer science topic. A written report, presentation, and/or an examination are required. Enrollment in the course requires prior approval of the course instructor, and credits assigned depend on the workload. May be repeated for credits.
COMP4971C - Independent Work (3)
Previous Code: 	COMP 390C
Description: 	Independent studies or projects under the directed guidance of a faculty member on a computer science topic. A written report, presentation, and/or an examination are required. Enrollment in the course requires prior approval of the course instructor, and credits assigned depend on the workload. May be repeated for credits.
COMP4971D - Independent Work (4)
Description: 	Independent studies or projects under the directed guidance of a faculty member on a computer science topic. A written report, presentation, and/or an examination are required. Enrollment in the course requires prior approval of the course instructor, and credits assigned depend on the workload. May be repeated for credits.
COMP4971F - Independent Work (3)
Description: 	Independent studies or projects under the directed guidance of a faculty member on a computer science topic. A written report, presentation, and/or an examination are required. Enrollment in the course requires prior approval of the course instructor, and credits assigned depend on the workload. May be repeated for credits.
COMP4981 - Final Year Project (6)
Exclusion: 	COMP 4981H
Description: 	Students are expected to complete a project in an area of specialization in Computer Science and Engineering under the guidance of a faculty member. Objectives are to integrate the classroom material from several courses, and to apply them to solve practical problems. Credit load will be spread over the year. For students in the BEng in Computer Science and BEng in Computer Engineering programs under the four-year degree only.
COMP4981H - Final Year Thesis (6)
Exclusion: 	COMP 4981
Description: 	Students are expected to conduct research under the supervision of a faculty member, summarize their work in an individual thesis and make a defense at the end. Credit load will be spread over the year. For students in the BEng in Computer Science and BEng in Computer Engineering programs under the four-year degree only. Instructor's approval is required for enrollment in the course.
COMP4988 - Computer Engineering Final Year Project (6)
Description: 	Each student of the Computer Engineering program is required to complete a final year project before graduation. The student is expected to conduct a project on a topic related to Computer Engineering and/or its application. The project is guided and conducted under the supervision of faculty members from the Department of Computer Science and Engineering and/or the Department of Electronic and Computer Engineering. Instructor's approval is required for enrollment in the course. For CPEG students under the four-year degree only. May be graded PP.
COMP4989 - Computer Engineering Final Year Thesis (6)
Description: 	Each student taking the Research Option of the Computer Engineering program is required to complete an individual thesis before graduation. The student is expected to conduct a research on a topic related to Computer Engineering and/or its application. The thesis is conducted under the supervision of faculty members from the Department of Computer Science and Engineering and/or the Department of Electronic and Computer Engineering. Instructor's approval is required for enrollment in the course. For CPEG students under the four-year degree only. May be graded PP.
COMP5112 - Parallel Programming (3)
Exclusion: 	COMP 6111B, COMP 6511A, COMP 6611A, MSBD 5009
Vector: 	[3-0-0:3]
Description: 	Introduction to parallel computer architectures; principles of parallel algorithm design; shared-memory programming models; message passing programming models used for cluster computing; data-parallel programming models for GPUs; case studies of parallel algorithms, systems, and applications; hands-on experience with writing parallel programs for tasks of interest.
COMP5211 - Advanced Artificial Intelligence (3)
Previous Code: 	COMP 521
Vector: 	[3-0-0:3]
Description: 	This advanced AI course will cover advanced concepts and techniques in AI.  The major topics will be: problem solving, knowledge and reasoning, planning, uncertain knowledge and reasoning, learning, and robotics.
COMP5331 - Knowledge Discovery in Databases (3)
Previous Code: 	COMP 537
Vector: 	[3-0-0:3]
Description: 	An introduction to knowledge discovery in databases.  Different discovery and learning techniques are presented and compared.  Automatic generation of query language expressions is discussed in depth.  Potential applications are shown.
COMP5411 - Advanced Computer Graphics (3)
Exclusion: 	CSIT 5400
Previous Code: 	COMP 541
Vector: 	[3-0-0:3]
Description: 	The first part of this course covers an introduction to mathematical tools and computational techniques for image synthesis and manipulation of 3D models.  The second part covers more advanced topics which may include digital geometry processing, image processing, visualization, GPU computing, numerical optimization methods.
COMP5621 - Computer Networks (3)
Exclusion: 	COMP 4622
Previous Code: 	COMP 561
Vector: 	[3-0-0:3]
Description: 	Principles, design and implementation of computer communication networks; network architecture and protocols, OSI reference model and TCP/IP networking architecture; Internet applications and requirements; transport protocols, TCP and UDP; network layer protocols, IP, routing, multicasting and broadcasting; local area networks; data link and physical layer issues; TCP congestion control, quality of service, emerging trends in networking.
COMP5631 - Cryptography and Security (3)
Exclusion: 	CSIT 5710
Previous Code: 	COMP 581
Vector: 	[3-0-0:3]
Description: 	Classical encryption techniques, block and stream ciphers, public-key cryptography, authentication, nonrepudiation, key management, digital signatures, public key infrastructure, cryptographic protocol, secret sharing, electronic mail security, IP security, Web security, Firewalls, Intrusion detection.
COMP5711 - Introduction to Advanced Algorithmic Techniques (3)
Previous Code: 	COMP 570
Vector: 	[3-0-0:3]
Description: 	This is an introductory graduate course in algorithmic techniques.  Topics include: advanced data structures; graph algorithms; amortization; approximation algorithms; on-line algorithms; randomized and probabilistic analysis.
COMP6111C - Blockchain and Cryptocurrency Technologies (3)
Vector: 	[3-0-0:3]
Description: 	The course will provide an introduction to blockchains, a tool that promises to revolutionize monetary transactions. We will start by analyzing the Bitcoin decentralized cryptocurrency that is the most popular existing blockchain application. We will examine in detail how Bitcoin transactions are created, how Bitcoins are mined, and what are the security guarantees of the protocol. Then we will look into other applications of blockchains, including smart contract execution, distributed storage, and alternative cryptocurrencies, by reviewing recent research literature.
COMP6770 - Professional Development in Computer Science and Engineering (1)
Vector: 	[0-1-0:1]
Description: 	This one-credit course aims at providing research postgraduate students with basic training in teaching skills, research management, career development, and related professional skills. This course consists of a number of mini-workshops. Some department-specific workshops will be coordinated by Department of CSE. Graded PP, P or F.
COMP6911 - Computer Science and Engineering Seminar I (0)
Previous Code: 	COMP 690
Vector: 	[0-1-0:0]
Description: 	A regular seminar presenting research problems currently under investigation. Students are expected to attend regularly. Graded P or F.
COMP6912 - Computer Science and Engineering Seminar II (1)
Prerequisite: 	COMP 6911
Previous Code: 	COMP 691
Vector: 	[0-1-0:1]
Description: 	Continuation of COMP 6911. Graded P or F.
COMP6921C - Research Project: Concurrency Study (1)
Previous Code: 	COMP 694G
Vector: 	[0-1-0:1]
Description: 	The course investigates the use of concurrency primitives in real world
large concurrent software systems. Patterns of usage of shared memory and locking mechanisms are the main focus of the study.
COMP6921U - Research Project (1)
Vector: 	[1 credit]
Description: 	An independent research project carried out under the supervision of a faculty member. This course is only available for exchange, visiting and visiting internship students.
COMP6921V - Research Project (1)
Vector: 	[1 credit]
Description: 	An independent research project carried out under the supervision of a faculty member. This course is only available for exchange, visiting and visiting internship students.
COMP6931A - Independent Studies (3)
Vector: 	[0-0-0:3]
Description: 	An independent research project carried out under the supervision of a faculty member. (Only one independent studies course may be used to satisfy the course requirements for any postgraduate program.)
COMP6990 - MPhil Thesis Research (0)
Previous Code: 	COMP 699
Description: 	Master's thesis research supervised by a faculty member.  A successful defense of the thesis leads to Pass.  No course credit is assigned.
COMP7990 - Doctoral Thesis Research (0)
Previous Code: 	COMP 799
Description: 	Original and independent doctoral thesis research supervised by a faculty member.  A successful defense of the thesis leads to Pass.  No course credit is assigned.
CPEG1971 - Industrial Experience (0)
Previous Code: 	ELEC 1971
Description: 	Full-time internship training for a period of at least six weeks in an organization or company recognized by the Program for providing qualified internship training relevant to the computer engineering profession. Separately, students must also complete the 1-day Safety Training module. Cantonese or other working languages may be used in off-campus trainings and internships, in some situations. For students in the BEng in Computer Engineering program under the four-year degree only. Internship coordinator's approval is required for enrollment in the course. Graded P, PP or F.
CPEG2930 - Academic and Professional Development I (0)
Previous Code: 	ELEC 2930
Description: 	A compulsory, one year course for Computer Engineering students only. This course is intended to offer advice to students on academic and professional matters, and to improve the students' communication skills. This will be achieved through: (1) Small student group meetings with an assigned advisor; (2) Professional and academic seminars, and (3) Social activities. Graded P or F.
CPEG3930 - Academic and Professional Development II (0)
Previous Code: 	ELEC 3930
Description: 	Continuation of CPEG 2930. This is a compulsory, one year course for Computer Engineering students only. Graded P or F.
CSIC5011 - Topological and Geometric Data Reduction and Visualization (3)
Vector: 	[3-0-0:3]
Description: 	This course is a mathematical introduction to data analysis and visualization with a perspective of topology and geometry. Topics covered include: classical linear dimensionality reduction, the principal component analysis (PCA) and its dual multidimensional scaling (MDS). Extensive application examples in biology, finance, and information technology are presented along with course projects.
CSIT5110 - Multimedia Development (3)
Previous Code: 	CSIT 511
Vector: 	[3-0-0:3]
Description: 	Multimedia fundamentals and design issues. Audio fundamentals and audio processing. Image fundamentals and image processing. Video fundamentals and video processing. Internet multimedia. Integrated multimedia.
CSIT5210 - Data Mining and Knowledge Discovery (3)
Exclusion: 	COMP 5331, MSBD 5002
Colist with: 	MSBD 5002
Previous Code: 	CSIT 521
Vector: 	[3-0-0:3]
Description: 	Data mining has recently emerged as a major field of research and applications.  Aimed at extracting useful and interesting knowledge from large data repositories such as databases and the Web, data mining integrates techniques from the fields of database, statistics and AI.
CSIT5410 - Recognition Systems (3)
Previous Code: 	CSIT 600M
Vector: 	[3-0-0:3]
Description: 	It is getting easier and more and more common to install or use recognition systems in our daily lives and working environments, such as fingerprint recognition systems, face and iris recognition systems, car plate and vehicle recognition systems, industrial automation inspection systems, medical diagnosis and surgical planning systems, image search systems. This course aims to provide students with a sound background in the area of recognition systems. Tentative topics include various examples of recognition systems, and related techniques in image analysis, computer vision, and pattern recognition.
CSIT5610 - Computer Networks: An Internet Perspective (3)
Previous Code: 	CSIT 561
Vector: 	[3-0-0:3]
Description: 	This course discusses in-depth the architectures, protocols, and other key issues in the design of the global Internet.  Topics include: common Internet applications, layered network architecture, switching techniques, local area networks, routing, transport, and multimedia networking.
CSIT5710 - Cryptography and Security (3)
Exclusion: 	COMP 5631
Previous Code: 	CSIT 571
Vector: 	[3-0-0:3]
Description: 	The design and analysis of ciphers, public-key cryptography, digital signature, user and data authentication, nonrepudiation, data integrity, public-key infrastructure, secret sharing, key management, cryptographic protocols, systems security, network security, and Web security.
CSIT6000F - Artificial Intelligence (3)
Exclusion: 	MSBD 6000A
Vector: 	[3-0-0:3]
Description: 	This course will cover advanced topics in AI including machine learning, agent design, mulitiagent systems, game search, natural language processing and knowledge representation and reasoning systems.
CSIT6910A - Independent Project (3)
Previous Code: 	CSIT 691A
Vector: 	[0-0-0:3]
Description: 	An independent project carried out under the supervision of a faculty member. This course may be repeated for credit.
ECON2103 - Principles of Microeconomics (3)
Attribute:	(SA)
Exclusion: 	ECON 2113, ECON 2913 (prior to 2013-14), ECON 3113, ECON 3133, SOSC 1440, a passing grade in HKAL Economics, Level 3 or above in HKDSE Economics
Description: 	Theory of firm in a free enterprise system; theory of consumer demand; market structures and resource allocation; efficiency of competitive markets; selected topics on government regulation. Students with non-local qualifications should seek department’s or school’s approval for enrollment in the course.
ECON2113 - Microeconomics (3)
Prerequisite: 	Grade C/D/E in HKAL Economics OR level 3 or above in HKDSE Economics
Exclusion: 	ECON 2103, ECON 2913 (prior to 2013-14), ECON 3113, ECON 3133, SOSC 1440, a passing grade in AL Business and Economics, grade B or above in HKAL Economics
Description: 	Theory of the firm in a free enterprise system; theory of consumer demand; market structures and resource allocation; selected topics on government regulation. More topics treated in greater depth than ECON 2103. Students with non-local qualifications should seek department’s or school’s approval for enrollment in the course.
ECON2123 - Macroeconomics (3)
Attribute:	(SA)
Exclusion: 	ECON 3123, ECON 3143, SOSC 1440
Description: 	Theory of national income determination and business fluctuation; monetary and fiscal policies; selected topics in macroeconomic policies and open economy macroeconomics. Students with non-local qualifications should seek department’s or school’s approval for enrollment in the course.
ECON2174 - Mathematics for Economists (4)
Prerequisite: 	MATH 1003 OR MATH 1012 OR MATH 1013 OR MATH 1018 (prior to 2013-14) OR MATH 1020 OR MATH 1023; OR grade D or above in AL Applied Mathematics/Pure Mathematics
Exclusion: 	MATH 2010 (prior to 2013-14), MATH 2011, MATH 2021 (prior to 2013-14), MATH 2023
Description: 	Exclusively for SB&M students.  This course provides students with mathematical tools frequently used in economic analysis. Topics include real numbers, single and multivariable functions, matrix algebra, multivariate calculus, convex analysis, and constrained and unconstrained optimization. Examples of economic analysis using these mathematical tools will be included.
ECON2310 - Introductory Environmental and Health Economics (3)
Attribute:	(SA)
Description: 	This course introduces students to basic theories and findings in environmental and health economics. The emphasis is on how the economic models and concepts can be used to analyze environmental and health issues. The course begins with an introduction of theoretical economic concepts and models; then it moves on to several policy-relevant environmental and health topics. Particular issues include externality, common goods and public goods, valuation of environmental goods and health, market failure and health, environmental regulations, pollution and health, and the economics of climate change. For students in their first and second year of study or those with approval from instructor for enrolling in the course.
ECON3014 - Managerial Microeconomics (4)
Prerequisite: 	One of ECON 2103, ECON 2113 or ECON 2913 (prior to 2013-14)
Exclusion: 	ECON 3113, ECON 3133
Description: 	Demand estimation, business and economic forecasting; production, innovation and cost; market structure, strategic behavior and pricing; decision making under uncertainty; government regulation of business activities; case studies.
ECON3024 - Managerial Macroeconomics (4)
Prerequisite: 	ECON 2123
Exclusion: 	ECON 3123, ECON 3143
Description: 	This course begins with a critical review of the standard models studied in introductory macroeconomics courses, highlighting their limitations and applicability.  In the process, we emphasize the role of expectations and the intertemporal decisions faced by governments, consumers and firms.  Building on this foundation, we analyze a host of international macroeconomic and financial issues, including monetary and fiscal policies, exchange rate determination, financial crises, currency risks and their implications for corporate decision-making.
ECON3133 - Microeconomic Theory II (4)
Prerequisite: 	ECON 3113
Exclusion: 	ECON 2913 (prior to 2013-14), ECON 3014, SOSC 1440
Description: 	This is the second course in the microeconomics sequence offered exclusively to the students of BSc in Economics and Finance program.  Topics include production theory, firms' behavior under different market structures (perfect competition, monopoly, oligopoly), factor demand, and game theory.  Emphases are placed on a rigorous analytical and mathematical approach, and multivariate calculus will be used extensively.
ECON3143 - Macroeconomic Theory II (4)
Prerequisite: 	ECON 3123
Exclusion: 	ECON 2123, ECON 3024, SOSC 102I, SOSC 1440
Description: 	This course will focus on long-term economic growth and structural change, theoretical elements of intertemporal macroeconomics, government budgets and deficits.
ECON3334 - Introduction to Econometrics (4)
Prerequisite: 	One of ISOM 2500, MATH 2411 or MATH 3423
Description: 	Topics on the use of statistical regression techniques in modeling and estimating economic and business relationships. Both theoretical and applied aspects are addressed.
ECON4124 - Applied Game Theory (4)
Prerequisite: 	ECON 2103 OR ECON 2113
Exclusion: 	MATH 4321
Previous Code: 	ECON 4999J
Description: 	This course introduces the basic concepts of game theory, it emphasize on the unifying perspective that game theory offers to questions in economics, other disciplines, and everyday life. It will enable students to view social interactions as strategic games, to use game theoretic concepts to predict behavior in these interactions and to conceive of ways in which altering the game affects social outcomes.
ECON4234 - Labor Economics and Human Resources (4)
Prerequisite: 	One of ECON 3113 or ECON 3014
Description: 	Occupational choice; labor market analysis and determination of earnings; unions and collective bargaining; employment and job turnover; family, fertility and population issues; training, health, and human capital.
ECON4284 - Econometrics for Cross-Section and Panel Data (4)
Prerequisite: 	ECON 3334
Description: 	This course introduces students to advanced econometric tools for analyzing cross section and panel data.  These tools are useful in areas such as industrial organization, corporate finance, labor and public economics.  Topics include: instrumental variable estimation; panel data; discrete choice models; censored and truncated dependent variables; duration models.
ECON4334 - Money and Banking (4)
Prerequisite: 	ECON 2123 or ECON 3123
Exclusion: 	ECON 5350
Description: 	Theories of money supply and demand; role of money in business fluctuations, inflation, and growth; banking, financial intermediation, and money supply; targets and instruments of monetary policy; rules versus discretion.
ECON4364 - International Trade and Investment (4)
Prerequisite: 	(ECON 3014 OR ECON 3113) AND (ECON 2123 OR ECON 3123)
Exclusion: 	ECON 4354 (prior to 2013-14), ECON 4384
Description: 	This course will cover the patterns and the mechanisms of international trade and foreign investment. Topics include the patterns of international trade, why nations trade, what they trade, and who gains from trade, without explicit policy interventions; the determinants and the implementations of different trade policies, the motives for countries or organizations to restrict or regulate international trade, and the welfare implications of those trade policies; the role of firms in the global economy, the operations of multinational enterprises, outsourcing, as well as the patterns and the determinants of foreign direct investment.
ECON4374 - International Macroeconomics and Finance (4)
Prerequisite: 	(ECON 3014 AND ECON 3024) OR (ECON 3113 AND ECON 3123)
Exclusion: 	ECON 4354 (prior to 2013-14), ECON 4384
Description: 	This course will help students understand the macroeconomic and financial linkages between domestic and foreign countries. Topics include the international financial market environment, the impacts of exchange rate fluctuations, the mechanisms of adjustment, the operation of the exchange rate systems in developing and developed countries, the international monetary system, and the relationship among money, output, exchange rates, interest rates and prices.
ECON4434 - Economic Development and Growth (4)
Prerequisite: 	ECON 3014 or ECON 3133
Description: 	Theories of externally and internally induced growth: roles of population, human and physical capital, international trade and investment, technology, and government policies; demographic and economic transition; comparison of development strategies.
ECON4670 - Economics Research and Communication (0)
Description: 	This course is to ensure that students will acquire research and communication skills through producing a research-based term paper. The paper may be one that has been written for ECON 4959, or any other 4000-level or above Economics course that has a term paper requirement. The paper should embody the equivalence of a minimum of two credits of workload if it is written for ECON 4959. A standard at grade C or above must be obtained for the paper. For Economics students only. Graded P or F.
ECON4959B - Independent Study (1)
Description: 	Faculty directed independent study. May be repeated for credits if different topics are taken.
ECON5030 - Foundations of Economic Analysis (2)
Exclusion: 	ECON 5110
Previous Code: 	ECON 503
Vector: 	[2-0-0:2]
Description: 	For MScFA and MScIM students only.  An examination of some micro- and macro-economic concepts: competitive markets, profits in terms of cost structure and market power; national accounts and business cycles; money and inflation, economic growth, capital accumulation, technological advance and returns to capital and balance of payments.
ECON5050 - China’s Economic Model : Key Insights and the Way Forward (2)
Exclusion: 	ECON 5120
Previous Code: 	ECON 6100V
Vector: 	[2-0-0:2]
Description: 	The course overviews the key characteristics of the Chinese economy with a big emphasis on its transformation. Key attention is put on China’s way forward both in terms of challenges and opportunities.
ECON5100 - Mathematics for Business and Economics (3)
Previous Code: 	ECON 510
Vector: 	[3-0-0:3]
Description: 	Application of mathematics to economic and business analysis; mathematical analysis and linear algebra; optimization methods.  For SBM students only.  Graded P or F.
ECON5110 - Managerial Microeconomics (2)
Exclusion: 	ECON 5130, IMBA 5040
Previous Code: 	ECON 511
Vector: 	[2-0-0:2]
Description: 	Demand analysis and estimation; cost analysis; market structure, strategic behavior and interaction; pricing decisions: asymmetric information; special topics in managerial economics; case studies. This is a core course for MBA.
ECON5130 - Microeconomic Analysis (4)
Exclusion: 	ECON 5210
Previous Code: 	ECON 513
Vector: 	[4-0-0:4]
Description: 	Theory of the consumer, theory of the firm; market structures and market equilibrium; information and uncertainty; game theory.
ECON5140 - Macroeconomic Analysis (4)
Exclusion: 	ECON 5250
Previous Code: 	ECON 514
Vector: 	[4-0-0:4]
Description: 	Stylized facts about the macroeconomy; microfoundations of macroeconomics; dynamic stochastic models as tools to understand inflation, unemployment, business cycles and growth; fiscal and monetary policies.
ECON5200 - Global Macroeconomics (2)
Exclusion: 	ECON 5250
Previous Code: 	ECON 520
Vector: 	[2-0-0:2]
Description: 	This course covers the basic theory of short run macroeconomics, as it has developed since Keynes. The basic framework will be the "IS-LM" equilibrium method, in which we analyze the major markets which affect the macroeconomy - labor, output, money and foreign exchange markets by studying positions of general equilibrium in them. This framework will be used to analyze fiscal and monetary policies.  This is a core course for MBA.
ECON5210 - Microeconomic Theory I (4)
Previous Code: 	ECON 521
Vector: 	[4-0-0:4]
Description: 	Theory of the firm, theory of consumer behavior, duality; theory of the market, game theory; neoclassical and alternative approaches.
ECON5250 - Macroeconomic Theory I (4)
Previous Code: 	ECON 525
Vector: 	[4-0-0:4]
Description: 	Classical and Keynesian models, microfoundations of macroeconomics, dynamic and stochastic models of the macroeconomy, rational expectations, business cycles.
ECON5280 - Applied Econometrics (4)
Prerequisite: 	ISOM 2500 or MATH 2411 or MATH 3423
Exclusion: 	ECON 5300
Previous Code: 	ECON 528
Vector: 	[4-0-0:4]
Description: 	Ordinary least squares; multiple regression; variable selection and model specification; multicollinearity; heteroscedasticity and serial correlation; errors in variables; Endogeneity and instrumental variable regression; panel data model.
ECON6100S - Financial Economics II: Corporate Finance (2)
Prerequisite: 	ECON 5130 AND ECON 5140
Vector: 	[2-0-0:2]
Description: 	This course tracks the life and times of firms by examining crucial corporate policies including: investment policy (e.g., project valuation, mergers and acquisitions), financing policy (e.g., IPO), payout policy (e.g., pay dividends), and corporate governance (e.g., managerial compensation). These policies are the basis of all work in corporate finance and financial management.
ECON6100T - International Macroeconomics and the Chinese Economy (2)
Exclusion: 	ECON 5120
Vector: 	[2-0-0:2]
Description: 	The course focuses on the rapidly evolving trends of the Chinese economy. After over viewing China’s growth model and the way it runs monetary and exchange policies. We shall pay quite a lot of attention to special characteristics of its financial system before moving to the reform agenda, with special focus on financial reform. We shall then analyze China’s relations with the rest of the world, both in terms of trade and investment and, more generally, how China is trying to find its space, as the second largest economy in the world, in a new global order. Finally China’s key economic challenges ahead will be analyzed with a special focus on debt accumulation.
ECON6101A - International Finance (2)
Vector: 	[2-0-0:2]
Description: 	With the increasing mobility of goods, services, and capital across borders, a global view of any macroeconomic issue becomes paramount. This course will provide a unified framework to help us better understand international issues such as implication of China’s One Belt, One Road, the internalization of RMB, the consequences of financial globalization, the reason why people trade at Eurobond market, etc.. We will go through the fundamental theory of international finance and demonstrate key ideas using a rich set of cases.  We will cover topics such as the balance of payments, foreign exchange rates, international macroeconomic policy, capital flows, financial integration, economic convergence, etc.
ECON6120M - Topics in Monetary Economics (4)
Prerequisite: 	ECON 5250 AND ECON 5260
Vector: 	[4-0-0:4]
Description: 	The course covers fundamental issues in monetary economics: essentiality of money, neutrality/nonneutrality of money, optimal monetary policy, money (as an asset) v.s. higher-return assets, money (as a means for inter-temporal allocation) v.s. credits, outside money v.s. inside money, money and banking, etc. Rigorous modelling is emphasized. Independent research project is expected.
ECON6970A - Independent Study (1)
Vector: 	[1 credit]
Description: 	Study of selected economic issues under the supervision of a faculty member in the Department. (Special permission from the Associate Dean is required for MBA students to take this course.)
ECON6980 - Independent Project (6)
Vector: 	[6 credits]
Description: 	For MSc(ECON) students opting for the Research Preparation concentration only. This course aims to acquire students with research skills through producing a term paper under the supervision of a faculty member in the Department.
ECON6990 - MPhil Thesis Research (0)
Previous Code: 	ECON 699
Description: 	Master's thesis research supervised by a faculty member.  A successful defense of the thesis leads to the grade Pass.  No course credit is assigned.
ECON7990 - Doctoral Thesis Research (0)
Previous Code: 	ECON 799
Description: 	Original and independent doctoral thesis research.  A successful defense of the thesis leads to the grade Pass.  No course credit is assigned.
EEMT5120 - Operation/Production Management (3)
Previous Code: 	EEMT 512
Vector: 	[3-0-0:3]
Description: 	This course covers production planning, production system design, and production control.  Topics include MRP, JIT, forecasting techniques, inventory control, shop floor control and scheduling.
EEMT5220 - Six Sigma Quality Management (3)
Previous Code: 	EEMT 522
Vector: 	[3-0-0:3]
Description: 	The course covers the various concepts and principles of quality management including Total Quality Management (TQM).  First, basic quality engineering methods and tools will be covered before introducing the framework of TQM.  TQM as a corporation reengineering tool for the simultaneous improvement of quality, cost, customer satisfaction and time to market will be discussed.  Following this, different techniques and methodologies of implementation of TQM that include Six Sigma, SPC, ISO 9000, reliability, concurrent engineering, QFD, and design of experiments will be covered.
EEMT5360 - IT System for Global Enterprise (3)
Previous Code: 	EEMT 536
Vector: 	[3-0-0:3]
Description: 	Basic knowledge and design of IT will be covered. Popular enterprise resource planning software packages are used for discussing and building integrated business solutions.
EEMT5500 - Applied Probability, Statistics and Data Analytics (3)
Previous Code: 	EEMT 550
Vector: 	[3-0-0:3]
Description: 	The course introduces the basic concepts of probability including conditioning and Bayes formula. In-depth study on a variety of widely used common distributions such as Binomial, Poisson, Exponential, LogNormal, Pareto, etc. will be covered to deepen our understanding of randomness. Building on the understanding of
probability and random samples, the course teaches three important statistical tools:
estimation, hypothesis test and regression. Excel Data Analysis ToolPak will be taught and used in class. However, understanding the core statistical concept makes adapting to other tools easy. The focus of this course is application and real world skill, however a minimal amount of mathematics will be needed to understand the concept and theory.
EEMT5510 - Engineering Economics and Cost Management (3)
Previous Code: 	EEMT 551
Vector: 	[3-0-0:3]
Description: 	The course has two parts.  The first part focuses on applications of microeconomics to engineering and managerial decision making.  Topics in this part include basic cash flow analysis of capital investment, net present value, rate of return, capital budgeting and cost accounting.  The second part focuses on cost management for engineering enterprises.  Topics in this part include basic concepts of uncertainty and risk, decision trees, cost measurement and cost hedging.
EEMT5990 - Problem Solving for Engineering Managers (1)
Previous Code: 	EEMT 599
Vector: 	[1-0-0:1]
Description: 	This course aims to stimulate new ideas and provide opportunities for group bonding, team and self development, based upon participative learning. It enhances students on team management, communication, organization, planning, decision making and outcome. Graded P or F.
EEMT6900 - Independent Study (3)
Vector: 	[3 credits]
Description: 	An Independent study carried under the supervision of a faculty member.
EESM5000 - CMOS VLSI Design (3)
Previous Code: 	EESM 501
Vector: 	[3-0-0:3]
Description: 	CMOS process and design rules; MOS device electronics; CMOS circuit and logic circuit characterization and performance estimation; VLSI design and verification tools.  Project work will be centered on industry standard tools.
EESM5060 - Embedded Systems (3)
Previous Code: 	EESM 5900A
Vector: 	[3-0-0:3]
Description: 	This course introduces trends and design strategies for embedded systems. It will give a holistic view of embedded system design using smart phone as an example. It covers the basic hardware and software components involved in a complex embedded system. It also covers the design and use of System-on-a-chip (SoC) in embedded systems. The course will also discuss the design issues such as testability and power considerations. Hands-on experience will be provided.
EESM5100 - Analog IC Analysis and Design (3)
Previous Code: 	EESM 503
Vector: 	[3-0-0:3]
Description: 	Current sources, output stages, operational amplifiers, frequency response, feedback analysis, stability and compensation, slew rate, advanced integrated-circuit design techniques, analog VLSI building blocks.
EESM5200 - Semiconductor Devices for Integrated Circuit Designs (3)
Previous Code: 	EESM 506
Vector: 	[3-0-0:3]
Description: 	Review of MOSFET characteristics, device modeling for circuit simulation (SPICE models), the BSIM MOSFET models, other semiconductor models, circuit model parameter characterization, design guard-band and statistical modeling.
EESM5515 - IP Networks (3)
Previous Code: 	EESM 515
Vector: 	[3-0-0:3]
Description: 	Designed for students with or without background in computer networks, this course covers the basic layer model for computer communications, TCP/IP and related protocols, local area networks, and advanced topics in unicast and multicast routing, QoS, mobile IP, and security.
EESM5536 - Digital Communications (3)
Exclusion: 	ELEC 5360
Previous Code: 	EESM 536
Vector: 	[3-0-0:3]
Description: 	This course provides a comprehensive coverage of digital communication theory and design. Emphasis placed on system goals and trade-offs. Review of signals and systems, probability and stochastic processes; optimal detection of signals in noise; basic information theory concepts; coding; basic and advanced digital modulation schemes; signaling through band-limited and wireless channels; spread-spectrum communications.
EESM5539 - Wireless Communication Networks (3)
Exclusion: 	EESM 5670
Previous Code: 	EESM 539
Vector: 	[3-0-0:3]
Description: 	Systems and protocols for wireless communication networks; from cellular to wireless IP applications, multiple access protocols, advanced and current wireless networking technologies, wireless infrastructure for cellular and wireless networks, wireless network performance and capacity analysis, packet data access and protocols, QoS for wireless multimedia. 
EESM5620 - Flat Panel Displays (3)
Exclusion: 	ELEC 5250
Previous Code: 	EESM 525
Vector: 	[3-0-0:3]
Description: 	Discussions on various flat-panel display technologies. Emphasis will be placed on liquid crystal displays. Liquid crystal alignment and optics. Driving methods. Active matrix. Bistable displays. Plasma display panels. Inorganic and organic light emitting diodes physics and devices.
EESM5650 - Digital Communication Networks and Systems (3)
Previous Code: 	EESM 514
Vector: 	[3-0-0:3]
Description: 	This course provides an overview to the fundamental concepts in both digital communication networks and digital communication systems. Physical layer concepts of signal space and digital modulation are highlighted including M-ary modulation, OFDM and MIMO. Higher layers are introduced including MAC layer protocols such as IEEE802.11, internet protocols, routing algorithms, transport layer including TCP and local area networks. Approaches to analyzing and formulating
digital communication networks and systems using these concepts will also be included.
EESM5770 - Engineering Research Methodologies (3)
Exclusion: 	ELEC 5900
Vector: 	[3-0-0:3]
Description: 	This class is designed to give a general perspective about ecosystem of research to students who are interested to know more about the subject. It focuses on the high value-added activities of the research supply chain to build up students' competence in their future career pursuit both in industrial or academic organizations.
EESM5910 - Topics in Telecommunications and Network Convergence (3)
Previous Code: 	EESM 691
Vector: 	[3-0-0:3]
Description: 	This course integrates the MSc program materials together by covering one or more selected topics in the following areas: network convergence; multimedia and content delivery protocols; broadband signaling, and new IP signaling standards; mobile network and applications; other topics.
EESM6900 - Independent Study (3)
Previous Code: 	EESM 690
Vector: 	[3 credits]
Description: 	Selected topics in electronic and computer engineering studied under the supervision of a faculty member.
EESM6980G - MSc Project (3)
Previous Code: 	EESM 698G
Vector: 	[3 credits]
Description: 	Independent project carried out under the supervision of a faculty member. This course may be run repeatedly for credit(s).
EESM6980H - MSc Project (3)
Previous Code: 	EESM 698H
Vector: 	[3 credits]
Description: 	Independent project carried out under the supervision of a faculty member. This course may be run repeatedly for credit(s).
ELEC1010 - Electronic and Information Technology (3)
Attribute:	(S&T)(SSC-S&T)
Description: 	This general-education course introduces the basics of electronic and information technology and their applications to daily-life consumer electronics and communication devices. Contents include the representation of signals in the time and frequency domains; digitization of information; coding for data compression and error protection; transmission of signals; cellular mobile phones and wireless communications; and the Internet. It is expected that through studying these technologies and how they address the problems encountered in the information technology area, students will also grasp the skills in solving problems with engineering approach and spirit and appreciate how these technologies impact the society
ELEC1100 - Introduction to Electro-Robot Design (4)
Description: 	The course introduces the fundamental knowledge on the design, implementation and evaluation of a robot and its sub-systems. It covers the basic principles of analog and digital circuits as well as robot sensing and control mechanisms.  Students have to apply the knowledge and principles learned to design and build a functional robot by the end of the course. Students who have completed ELEC 2200, ELEC 2400, ELEC 2410, or ELEC 2420,  must obtain instructor's approval to take this course.
ELEC1200 - A System View of Communications: from Signals to Packets (4)
Corequisite: 	(COMP 1004 (prior to 2013-14) OR COMP 1021 OR COMP 1022P OR COMP 1022Q) AND (MATH 1003 OR MATH 1014 OR MATH 1018 (prior to 2013-14) OR MATH 1020 OR MATH 1024)
Description: 	Have you ever wondered what technologies go into your mobile phone or a WiFi hotspot?  Through hands on work with a simple but fully functional wireless communication system, you will understand the basic engineering tools used and tradeoffs encountered in the design of these systems.  This course is centered on weekly laboratories, each designed to introduce an important concept in the design of these systems.  The lab sessions are supported by two one-hour lectures and a tutorial that introduce the concepts for the next laboratory, as well as reviewing and expanding the concepts learned in the previous laboratory.
ELEC1991 - Industrial Experience (Electronic Engineering) (0)
Description: 	Full-time internship training for a period of at least six weeks in an organization or company recognized by the Department for providing qualified internship training relevant to the electronic and computer engineering profession. Students must also complete the USTSEEB Safety Training module. Cantonese or other working languages may be used in off-campus trainings and internships, in some situations. For students in the BEng in Electronic Engineering program under the four-year degree only. Internship coordinator's approval is required for enrollment in the course. Graded P, PP or F.
ELEC2100 - Signals and Systems (4)
Prerequisite: 	ELEC 1200 AND (MATH 2011 OR MATH 2023 OR MATH 2111 OR MATH 2350 OR MATH 2351 OR MATH 2352)
Description: 	This is an introductory course for signal and system analysis. The course covers signal analysis tools including continuous- and discrete-time Fourier series and Fourier transform, and Laplace Transform; interactions between signals and linear time invariant (LTI) systems, and differential and difference equations as LTI systems, sampling theorem; and application examples in communication and control systems. MATLAB introduced as an integral part of this course.
ELEC2100H - Honors Signals and Systems (4)
Prerequisite: 	(ELEC 1100 OR ELEC 1200 OR ELEC 2400 OR ELEC 2410 (prior 2016-17)) AND Grade A- or above in (MATH 2011 OR MATH 2023 OR MATH 2111 OR MATH 2350 OR MATH 2351 OR MATH 2352)
Exclusion: 	ELEC 2100
Description: 	This is an accelerated and intensive course on signals and system analysis. The course covers continuous- and discrete-time Fourier series, Fourier transform, Laplace Transform, interactions between signals, linear time invariant systems, differential and difference equations, and the sampling theorem. There will also be an introduction to advanced concepts and related applications, such as various transforms used in image processing and modulation techniques used in communication systems, which will allow students to develop a deeper understanding of the fundamentals of signals and systems. MATLAB will be introduced as an integral part of this course.
ELEC2200 - Digital Circuits and Systems (4)
Prerequisite: 	ELEC 1100 OR ELEC 1200
Description: 	Design of combinatorial and sequential logic circuits; introduction to logic families (TTL and CMOS); programmable logic devices; special digital systems. Laboratory assignments make extensive use of computer-aided design (CAD) tools for design, simulation and testing.
ELEC2300 - Computer Organization (4)
Corequisite: 	ELEC 2200
Exclusion: 	COMP 2611
Description: 	This is an introductory course to computer organization. The topics covered include instruction-set-design, digital design and computer arithmetic, controller and datapath design, memory systems, input-output systems, interrupts, pipelining, performance analysis, assembly language programming, and survey of advanced architectures.
ELEC2400 - Electronic Circuits (4)
Prerequisite: 	ELEC 1100 AND (MATH 1003 OR MATH 1014 OR MATH 1018 (prior to 2013-14) OR MATH 1020 OR MATH 1024)
Corequisite: 	PHYS 1114 OR PHYS 1154 (prior to 2014-15) OR PHYS 1314
Exclusion: 	ELEC 2410 (prior to 2016-17), ELEC 2420
Description: 	Fundamental electronic concepts for DC and AC circuits, KVL and KCL, Thevenin and Norton Theroems, linearity and superposition, nodal and mesh analyses, sinusoidal steady state and phasor, transient analysis, transfer functions and Bode plots, op-amps, diodes, MOS transistors and related circuits.
ELEC2420 - Basic Electronics (3)
Prerequisite: 	MATH 1014 OR MATH 1020 OR MATH 1024
Corequisite: 	PHYS 1111 OR PHYS 1112 OR PHYS 1152 (prior to 2014-15) OR PHYS 1312
Exclusion: 	ELEC 2400, ELEC 2410 (prior to 2016-17)
Description: 	Basic electronic concepts and components; DC, AC and transient analyses of analog electronic circuits; operational amplifiers and circuits; digital electronics includes binary number systems, Boolean algebra, and combinational and sequential logic. For non-ECE students only.
ELEC2600 - Probability and Random Processes in Engineering (4)
Prerequisite: 	A passing grade in AL Pure Mathematics OR MATH 1003 OR MATH 1014 OR MATH 1018 (prior to 2013-14) OR MATH 1020 OR MATH 1024
Corequisite: 	MATH 2011 OR MATH 2023
Exclusion: 	ELEC 2600H, MATH 2421
Description: 	An introduction to statistical inference and random processes in electrical engineering, including the necessary probabilistic background. Random variables, distribution and density functions, characteristic functions, conditional statistics, expectation, moments, stochastic processes.
ELEC2600H - Honors Probability and Random Processes in Engineering (4)
Prerequisite: 	Grade A- or above in MATH 1014 OR MATH 1018 (prior to 2013-14) OR MATH 1020 OR MATH 1024
Corequisite: 	MATH 2011 OR MATH 2023
Exclusion: 	ELEC 2600, MATH 2421
Description: 	This course is an accelerated and intensive course on probability and random processes. There will be an introduction to statistical inference and random processes in electrical engineering, including the necessary probabilistic background. The course also covers random variables, distribution and density functions, characteristic functions, conditional statistics, expectation, moments, stochastic processes.
ELEC2910 - Academic and Professional Development I (0)
Description: 	A compulsory, one year course for Electronic Engineering and EE (Information and Communication Engineering) students only. This course is designed to provide academic advising to students and/or to develop students' communication skills in interacting with the technical and non-technical audiences in their professional careers. Graded P or F.
ELEC3200 - System Modeling, Analysis and Control (4)
Prerequisite: 	(ELEC 2100 OR ELEC 2100H) AND MATH 2111 AND MATH 2351
Exclusion: 	CENG 4120, MECH 3610
Description: 	This course introduces basic concepts, tools and techniques for modeling, analysis, and control of dynamical systems. The course starts from the use of differential equations to model continuous time systems. Examples from a variety of Electronic and Computer Engineering disciplines will be given to illustrate the modeling process. Then, basic tools needed for analyzing the behavior of dynamical systems will be presented. Finally, techniques for controlling their behavior will be introduced. Throughout the course, laboratory experiments demonstrating the use of these analysis/design tools will be included.
ELEC3300 - Introduction to Embedded Systems (4)
Prerequisite: 	COMP 2611 or ELEC 2300
Description: 	This course is designed to teach techniques on how to integrate machine-level software and hardware in ARM-core microcontroller based systems. It makes use of industry-standard techniques and technologies, from which students can interface, design and program microcontroller systems. The task of the course will be to complete five laboratory experiments which address different aspects of hardware/software interfacing, and one large microprocessor/microcontroller based project which should result in the design and implementation of a small working embedded system.
ELEC3400 - Introduction to Integrated Circuits and Systems (4)
Prerequisite: 	ELEC 2200; and ELEC 2400 or ELEC 2410 (prior to 2016-17)
Description: 	This course presents an overview, applications, fundamentals and design flow of the state-of-the-art integrated circuits (IC) and systems. Course contents include fabrication process; diodes, bipolar transistors and MOS transistors and modes of operations; and fundamental of analog, digital and mixed-signal IC design.
ELEC3500 - Microelectronic Devices and Technology (4)
Prerequisite: 	(Level 3 or above in HKDSE 1/2x or 1x Chemistry OR a passing grade in HKCEE Chemistry OR CHEM 1001 OR CHEM 1004) AND (ELEC 2400 OR ELEC 2410 (prior to 2016-17))
Description: 	This is an introductory course for semiconductor device operation principles and technology in common electronic products such as integrated circuit (IC), camcorder, solar cell, memory elements, smartcard, etc. Topics covered include Semiconductor properties, IC fabrication technology, PN junctions, Bipolar Junction Transistors (BJT), MOSFETs, CCD and the future technology trend in the electronic industry.
ELEC3910 - Academic and Professional Development II (0)
Description: 	Continuation of ELEC 2910. Graded P or F.
ELEC4010K - Machine Learning and Information Processing for Robotic Perception (3)
Prerequisite: 	ELEC 2600 AND MATH 2111
Description: 	This course covers the concept of information process for robotics, i.e. to understand, estimate and predict based on sensor data. Basic knowledge of machine learning will be taught to tackle robotic perception problems. Target applications include IoT, self-driving vehicle, UAV and service robot. The emphases are on hands-on experience in real projects with real-time algorithms. Applications of provided libraries or tools are expected.
ELEC4010L - Display Technology (3)
Prerequisite: 	MATH 2111
Description: 	Introduction to display technology. Mostly on LCD and OLED.
ELEC4130 - Digital Image Processing (3)
Prerequisite: 	ELEC 3100 AND MATH 2111
Exclusion: 	COMP 4421, MATH 4336
Description: 	This course introduces methods to process images on a computer. Topics include the formation and quantification of digital images, morphological image processing, image enhancement in the spatial and frequency domain, image restoration, color image processing, image compression, image segmentation, image representation and description. This course is mathematics-oriented. It requires basic knowledge of linear algebra, calculus and linear filtering. Familiarity with the programming language MATLAB is needed.
ELEC4150 - Information Theory and Error-Correcting Codes (3)
Prerequisite: 	ELEC 2100
Description: 	Communication and information theory; self and mutual information measures; channel models and capacity; source coding; hamming codes; cyclic codes; BCH and Reed-Solomon codes; convolutional codes and the Viterbi algorithm; burst error correction; Turbo coding.
ELEC4170 - Digital Media and Multimedia Applications (4)
Prerequisite: 	(COMP 1021 OR COMP 1022P OR COMP 1022Q) AND ELEC 2100
Exclusion: 	COMP 4431
Description: 	This course provides students with a background in digital media, multimedia applications development, and multimedia systems. Topics include digital media fundamentals, authoring, and multimedia systems design issues. Weekly laboratory and programming assignments introduce students to media editing tools and programming issues. A final project challenges students to apply what they learn.
ELEC4320 - FPGA-based Design: From Theory to Practice (3)
Prerequisite: 	ELEC 2300
Previous Code: 	ELEC 4440
Description: 	This course introduces the basic theory and design skills for FPGA-based design.  The course aims to equip the students with enough knowledge and skills for the real world engineering using FPGA devices. Major topics include introduction to reconfigurable computing, hardware description language, FPGA device, and mapping flow. Students will gain hands-on experiences of the complete FPGA-based design cycle, from design specification, synthesis, implementation and simulation in this course.
ELEC4410 - CMOS VLSI Design (3)
Prerequisite: 	ELEC 2200
Description: 	CMOS process and design rules; MOS device electronics; CMOS circuit and logic circuit characterization and performance estimation; VLSI design and verification tools. Laboratory work will be centered on industry standard tools.
ELEC4810 - Introduction to Biosensors and Bioinstrumentation (4)
Prerequisite: 	ELEC 2200 AND ELEC 2400
Description: 	This course builds on the fundamental knowledge of biosensors and bioinstrumentation. Lectures and hands-on laboratory experiments cover: (1) Basic concepts of biomedical signal analysis; (2) Measurements of bioelectrical, biomechanical and biochemical signals for medical diagnosis and clinical monitoring; (3) Principles of biosensors and biochips; (4) Simple design of new bioinstrumentation and biosensor to solve biomedical problems.
ELEC4820 - Medical Imaging (3)
Prerequisite: 	ELEC 2100 AND MATH 2011 AND MATH 2111
Description: 	This course introduces medical imaging methods to senior undergraduate and graduate students.  It covers the following topics: radiation, radiography, computer tomography, radioisotope imaging, diagnostic ultrasound imaging, magnetic resonance imaging, and applications of different imaging modalities.  This course requires basic knowledge of linear algebra, calculus, and geometry.  Familiarity with a programming language such as MATLAB is needed.
ELEC4900 - Final Year Design Project (6)
Description: 	Each undergraduate student enrolled in Electronic Engineering and Computer Engineering is required to complete a final year project before graduation. The student is expected to submit a project progress report by the end of the first term of the project, complete a final project report, and give both oral and poster project presentations at the end. The project is conducted under the supervision of a faculty member. For students in the BEng in Computer Engineering and BEng in Electronic Engineering programs under the four-year degree only.
ELEC4901 - Final Year Thesis (6)
Description: 	Each undergraduate student taking the Research Option of the Electronic Engineering or Computer Engineering program is required to complete an individual thesis and the thesis should summarize his/her work conducted under the supervision of a faculty member. The student is expected to submit a progress report by the end of the first term of the project, complete a final report, and give both oral and poster project presentations at the end. For students in the BEng in Computer Engineering and BEng in Electronic Engineering programs under the four-year degree only.
ELEC4907 - Final Year Project (9)
Description: 	Each undergraduate student enrolled in the Department of Electronic and Computer Engineering is required to complete a final year project before graduation. The student is expected to submit a project progress report by the end of the first term of the project, and to complete a final project report and to give an oral project presentation at the end.  The project is conducted under the supervision of a faculty member. The credit load will be spread over 3 terms.
ELEC4918 - Computer Engineering Final Year Project (6)
Description: 	Each student of the Computer Engineering program is required to complete a final year project before graduation. The student is expected to conduct a project on a topic related to Computer Engineering and/or its application. The project is guided and conducted under the supervision of faculty members from the Department of Computer Science and Engineering and/or the Department of Electronic and Computer Engineering. Instructor's approval is required for enrollment in the course. For CPEG students under the four-year degree only. May be graded PP.
ELEC4919 - Computer Engineering Final Year Thesis (6)
Description: 	Each student taking the Research Option of the Computer Engineering program is required to complete an individual thesis before graduation. The student is expected to conduct a research on a topic related to Computer Engineering and/or its application. The thesis is conducted under the supervision of faculty members from the Department of Computer Science and Engineering and/or the Department of Electronic and Computer Engineering. Instructor's approval is required for enrollment in the course. For CPEG students under the four-year degree only. May be graded PP.
ELEC4940C - Independent Study (1)
Description: 	Selected topics in electronic and computer engineering studied under the supervision of a faculty member. Enrollment subject to approval by the department.
ELEC5010 - Introduction to the Design & Implementation of Micro-Systems (3)
Exclusion: 	MECH 5950
Previous Code: 	ELEC 501, ELEC 692V
Vector: 	[3-0-1:3]
Description: 	Introduction to the concept of micro-systems.  Dimensional scaling and its implications.  Multi-physics modeling.  Micro-fabrication techniques.  Introduction to Coventor, a numerical simulation package for micro-systems.  The design, implementation and testing of a micro-device.
ELEC5040 - Advanced Analog IC Analysis and Design (3)
Exclusion: 	EESM 5120
Previous Code: 	ELEC 504
Vector: 	[3-0-0:3]
Description: 	Noise analysis; Advanced op-amp design techniques; Analog VLSI building blocks: multipliers, oscillators, mixers, phase-locked loops, A/D and D/A converters; Passive filter design; Frequency scaling; Active filter design.
ELEC5070 - Microelectronics Fabrication Technology (3)
Previous Code: 	ELEC 507
Vector: 	[3-0-0:3]
Description: 	Process technologies in IC fabrication: epitaxial growth; chemical-vapor and physical-vapor deposition of films; thermal oxidation; diffusion; ion implantation; microlithography; wet/dry etching processes; process integration of MOS and bipolar technologies.
ELEC5090 - Advanced Photonics Technologies (3)
Previous Code: 	ELEC 509
Vector: 	[3-0-0:3]
Description: 	A brief review of modern optics theories, Fourier optics based devices and systems, fundamentals of laser physics, optoelectronics, nonlinear optics and laser spectroscopy.
ELEC5300 - Stochastic Processes (3)
Previous Code: 	ELEC 530
Vector: 	[3-0-0:3]
Description: 	Borel/sigma fields.  Sequences of random variables and convergence.  Spectral factorization.  Karhunen-Loeve Expansion.  Stationarity, ergodicity and spectral estimation.  Mean square estimation and Kalman filtering.  Entropy.  System identification.
ELEC5360 - Principles of Digital Communications (3)
Exclusion: 	EESM 5536
Previous Code: 	ELEC 536
Vector: 	[3-0-0:3]
Description: 	The aim of this course is to provide an in-depth treatment of the theoretical basis, analysis, and design of digital communication systems. The first half of the course will focus on the theoretical foundations of a basic digital communication system, including source coding, modulating and channel coding, and introductory information theory. The second half will deal with advanced techniques including orthogonal frequency division multiplexing (OFDM), multi-antenna communications, spread-spectrum communications, and cooperative communications.
ELEC5470 - Convex Optimization (3)
Previous Code: 	ELEC 547, ELEC 692Q
Vector: 	[3-0-0:3]
Description: 	Convex optimization theory with applications to communication systems and signal processing: convex sets/functions/problems; Lagrange duality and KKT conditions; saddle points and minimax problems; numerical algorithms; primal/dual decomposition methods. Applications: filter design; robust beamforming; power control in wireless systems; design of MIMO systems; GP duality in information theory; network utility maximization. For PG students in second year or above.
ELEC5540 - High Tech Innovation and Entrepreneurship (3)
Exclusion: 	CSIT 6000C, EESM 5810, ELEC 6910N, SBMT 6010K
Previous Code: 	ELEC 6910I
Vector: 	[3-0-0:3]
Description: 	This interdisciplinary class combines a technical survey of emerging technologies/innovation with practical high-tech entrepreneurship training. It surveys a few major areas of innovation that will change the future landscape of the high-tech industry, with notable guest lecturers describing business cases and providing an industrial perspective. The class also introduces practical entrepreneurship principles for business development. Students will learn important skills such as building teams and attracting talent, developing a product/technology roadmap, marketing and selling an idea, company structuring, managing rapid growth, venture fund raising, forming strategic partnerships, and developing and intellectual property strategy. Students will form multi-disciplinary teams to write real-world business plans. Each team will develop a business model and execution plan based on its members' interests.
ELEC5600 - Linear-System Theory (3)
Previous Code: 	ELEC 560
Vector: 	[3-0-0:3]
Description: 	Introduces modern system theory, with applications to control, signal processing and related topics.  Basic system concepts, state-space and I/O representation, properties of linear systems, controllability, observability, minimality, transfer-function matrices, state and output feedback, stability, observers, optimal regulators.
ELEC5640 - Robot Manipulation (3)
Previous Code: 	ELEC 564
Vector: 	[3-0-3:3]
Description: 	Extensive introduction to robot manipulation theory from a geometric viewpoint. Rigid-body kinematics; spatial and body representation of rigid-body velocities; coordinate transformations; forward kinematics of open-chain manipulators; solution of inverse kinematics; robot workspaces; nonlinear decoupling control and force control.
ELEC5660 - Introduction to Aerial Robotics (3)
Previous Code: 	ELEC 6910P
Vector: 	[3-0-3:3]
Description: 	This course gives a comprehensive introduction to aerial robots. The goal of this course is to expose students to relevant mathematical foundations and algorithms, and train them to develop real-time software modules for aerial robotic systems. Topics to be covered include rigid-body dynamics, system modeling, control, trajectory planning, sensor fusion, and vision-based state estimation. Students will complete a series of projects which combine into an aerial robot that is capable of vision-based autonomous indoor navigation.
ELEC6770 - Professional Development in Electronic and Computer Engineering (1)
Vector: 	[0-1-0:1]
Description: 	This one-credit course aims at providing research postgraduate students with basic training in teaching skills, research management, career development, and related professional skills. This course consists of a number of mini-workshops. Some department-specific workshops will be coordinated by Department of ECE. Graded PP, P or F.
ELEC6900A - Independent Study (1)
Previous Code: 	ELEC 690
Vector: 	[0-0-0:1]
Description: 	Selected topics in electronic and computer engineering studied under the supervision of a faculty member. Graded P or F.
ELEC6950A - Departmental Seminar (0)
Previous Code: 	ELEC 695A
Vector: 	[1-0-0:0]
Description: 	Series of seminar topics presented by students, faculty and guest speakers. Graded P or F.
ELEC6950B - Departmental Seminar (0)
Previous Code: 	ELEC 695B
Vector: 	[1-0-0:0]
Description: 	Series of seminar topics presented by students, faculty and guest speakers. Graded P or F.
ELEC6990 - MPhil Thesis Research (0)
Previous Code: 	ELEC 699
Description: 	Master's thesis research supervised by a faculty member.  A successful defense of the thesis leads to the grade Pass.  No course credit is assigned.
ELEC7990 - Doctoral Thesis Research (0)
Previous Code: 	ELEC 799
Description: 	Original and independent doctoral thesis research.  A successful defense of the thesis leads to the grade Pass.  No course credit is assigned.
ENGG1010 - Academic Orientation (0)
Description: 	This course is designed specifically for engineering students of the First Year of 4Y curriculum. This year-long course aims at providing an induction to the School of Engineering for the freshmen year. It will cover topics such as learning and time-management skills, purposes of university and engineering education, and planning for personal and professional development. Graded PP, P or F. For Year 1 Engineering students only.
ENGG1100 - First Year Cornerstone Engineering Design Project Course (3)
Exclusion: 	ENGG 1200
Previous Code: 	ENGG 2990I
Description: 	This project course is designed specifically for first year engineering students. This course aims at providing engineering students experiential learning experience through exposing students to knowledge and skills from different SENG disciplines before making decision on their majors. Students in this course will be divided into design teams. Each team will use the acquired knowledge and skills to design and build an engineering artifact, e.g. an airship. In order to offer the course at scale, the technical components will be offered online and students would be engaged in experiential learning through working on team projects. For First year Engineering students only.
ENGG1110 - Engineering Solutions to Grand Challenges of the 21st Century (3)
Attribute:	(S&T)(SSC-S&T)
Description: 	Throughout human history, engineering has driven the advance of civilization. In the past century engineering has recorded its greatest accomplishments, but for all these accomplishments the century ahead poses formidable problems sustaining civilization advancement. This course will broaden and raise student's awareness of challenges faced by coming generations such as climate change, clean water and healthcare. Students will work in small groups in a collaborative learning environment to explore in details and in multiple dimensions the key issues around selected major challenges with experts in the areas. Suggested and proposed engineering solutions based on advances in science and technology will be explored and discussed. Students will be encouraged to develop and present their own innovative engineering approaches to address these major challenges.
ENGG1150 - Information Technology Revolution: Past, Present and Future (3)
Attribute:	(S&T)(SSC-S&T)
Description: 	This course introduces the basic concepts in information technology and explores the many applications of information technology in our daily life from consumer electronics to internet to various sectors including medicine, business, and social networking, etc. Key technology breakthroughs throughout the development of information technology and its impact to various aspect of our society will be studied. These include the invention of the 1st transistor, concept of computing machine, representation of information in digital formats, miniaturization via VLSI technology, electronic communications from emails, mobile phones, sms, to video skype, imaging technologies in medical field, internet and social networking, image and video technology and websites like youtube, etc. The focus is to identify the key technological advances in information technology and understand how these advances led to revolutionary changes in our life and society.
ENGG1900 - Service Learning Program (1)
Description: 	With the collaboration of local or non-local NGO and support from the School of Engineering, students enrolled in this program would be provided an opportunity to engage themselves in community service. Lectures, talks or training sessions will be provided to students to build up their communication skills and/or broaden their horizon. Students should also fulfill the requirements set by the NGO. At the end of the Program, students are required to submit report, reflective paper, group projects or to make a presentation as appropriate. They may also be required to make evaluation. Cantonese may be used in off-campus trainings, in some situations. Enrollment in this course requires instructor's approval. Students may not repeat the course for credits. Graded P or F. Maybe graded PP.
ENGG2010 - Engineering Seminar Series (0)
Description: 	This course is designed for non-freshman students in the School of Engineering to promote the awareness of the role of engineers and the impact of engineering in the society. As a continuation of ENGG 1010, students are required to attend a few seminars from a series of seminars offered by the school each year. The seminars cover areas including the ethical and environmental responsibilities as an engineer, the importance and the considerations of safety and health related issues in engineering designs and solutions, and in general the impact of engineering to the society. This course helps to provide the needed components for meeting the accreditation requirement and also helps to broaden the students' horizon in different engineering disciplines. For SENG students not in their first year of study only. Graded P or F. May be graded PP.
ENGG2900A - Community Services Project: Developing Leadership Through Service Learning (2)
Description: 	This course aims to increase students' involvement in community services and provide them learning opportunities through the social services programs such as fund-raising events, greening the society and elderly services. Under the supervision of the School, students will gain experience from developing a plan, marketing through implementation of projects at a designated non-governmental organization (NGO). Instructor's approval required. Graded P or F. May be graded PP.
ENGG2991A - Undergraduate Student-initiated Experiential Learning (1)
Description: 	This course shall encourage students to carry our projects of their own ideas under guidance of faculty supervisors to apply engineering knowledge they learnt and integrate other expertise. In the end of the term, students are required to submit reports/demonstrations in an open house to show what they have achieved. Project and budget proposal should be submitted to the School of Engineering for application approval. May be repeated for credits if different topics are taken. Graded PP, P or F. Instructor's approval is required for enrollment in the course.
ENGG2992A - Undergraduate Student-initiated Experiential Learning (2)
Description: 	This course shall encourage students to carry our projects of their own ideas under guidance of faculty supervisors to apply engineering knowledge they learnt and integrate other expertise. In the end of the term, students are required to submit reports/demonstrations in an open house to show what they have achieved. Project and budget proposal should be submitted to the School of Engineering for application approval. May be repeated for credits if different topics are taken. Graded PP, P or F. Instructor's approval is required for enrollment in the course.
ENGG4901 - Integrated Final Year Project - First Major (3)
Corequisite: 	ENGG 4902
Description: 	Student who enrolled in this course should have declared additional major and both majors are BEng majors. The project would be an integrated, tailor-made project which can fulfill both majors’ program intended learning outcomes. It should be conducted under the supervision of faculty members from both majors. This course would be assessed by criteria set by first major. Student should use this course to substitute FYP requirement for both majors. Student enrolled in this course must concurrently enroll in ENGG 4902. May be graded PP. Instructor's approval is required for enrollment in the course.
ENGG4902 - Integrated Final Year Project - Second Major (3)
Corequisite: 	ENGG 4901
Description: 	Student who enrolled in this course should have declared additional major and both majors are BEng majors. The project would be an integrated, tailor-made project which can fulfill both majors’ program intended learning outcomes. It should be conducted under the supervision of faculty members from both majors. This course would be assessed by criteria set by second major. Student should use this course to substitute FYP requirement for both majors. Student enrolled in this course must concurrently enroll in ENGG 4901. May be graded PP. Instructor's approval is required for enrollment in the course.
ENGG4903 - Integrated Final Year Thesis - First Major (3)
Corequisite: 	ENGG 4904
Description: 	Student who enrolled in this course should have declared additional major and both majors are BEng majors. The thesis would be an integrated, tailor-made thesis which can fulfill both majors’ program intended learning outcomes. It should be conducted under the supervision of faculty members from both majors. This course would be assessed by criteria set by first major. Student should use this course to substitute FYT requirement for both majors. Student enrolled in this course must concurrently enroll ENGG 4904. May be graded PP. Instructor's approval is required for enrollment in the course.
ENGG4904 - Integrated Final Year Thesis - Second Major (3)
Corequisite: 	ENGG 4903
Description: 	Student who enrolled in this course should have declared additional major and both majors are BEng majors. The thesis would be an integrated, tailor-made thesis which can fulfill both majors’ program intended learning outcomes. It should be conducted under the supervision of faculty members from both majors. This course would be assessed by criteria set by second major. Student should use this course to substitute FYT requirement for both majors. Student enrolled in this course must concurrently enroll in ENGG 4903. May be graded PP. Instructor's approval is required for enrollment in the course.
ENGG4950T - Engineering Special Project: Design for Global Health (3)
Description: 	A group/ individual special project supervised by one or a group of faculty members. Student(s) is/are required to conduct a project on a specified topic related to Global Health. Team will set objectives at the beginning of the semester. There will be several task-based assessments throughout the semester to check their progress. At the end of semester need to show case their output in a form of Roadshow and have to a submit the final report graded by SIGHT Teaching team, Faculty advisors and SIGHT partners. Enrollment in the project course requires approval of the course instructor.
ENGG5001 - Technology Leadership and Entrepreneurship (2)
Vector: 	[2-0-0:2]
Description: 	This course will provide a common level of knowledge among students on topics in technology innovation management, leadership and entrepreneurship. Particularly, the course examines how the technology innovation process works; how to lead and manage innovation processes and how to create an environment that rewards innovation and entrepreneurship.
ENGG6000G - Technology Leadership and Entrepreneurship Seminar (1)
Vector: 	[0-1-0:1]
Description: 	Series of prominent issues in the areas of technology leadership and entrepreneurship, presented by students, faculty and guest speakers for discussion. Graded P or F.
ENGG6770 - Professional Development in Engineering (1)
Vector: 	[0-1-0:1]
Description: 	This one-credit course aims at providing research postgraduate students with basic training in teaching skills, research ethics, communication skills, entrepreneurship, and other professional skills. This course consists of a number of workshops and seminars which are coordinated by the School. Graded PP, P or F.
ENGG6990 - MPhil Thesis Research (0)
Description: 	Master's thesis research supervised by a faculty member. A successful defense of the thesis leads to the grade Pass. No course credit is assigned.
ENTR2010 - Entrepreneurship Seminars and Readings (1)
Description: 	This course introduces entrepreneurship through seminars and readings to broadly expose students to the area. Various topics will be covered, with experience sharing from practitioners and investors. Students may choose the seminars and readings of their interests, which include startup environment, team forming, financing, success and failure factors, social entrepreneurship and innovation, etc. Site visits may also be required.
ENTR3030 - Social Innovations and Entrepreneurship (3)
Previous Code: 	ENTR 4100
Description: 	Building a social enterprise can be markedly different from building a commercial one. When well deployed, social innovations can meet social needs that the government welfare, business corporations or charity-based social welfare cannot easily fulfill. A commercial entity should also be aware of the social impacts of its business decisions. This course introduces corporate social responsibility (CSR), social innovations, and the factors of consideration to start a social enterprise. This includes current topics on operation models, sustainability, team building, case studies, strategies, practices, etc. Site visits and student projects will be involved.
ENTR4000A - Global Product Development for Successful Technology Startups (3)
Description: 	Joint lecture and project-based course on global product development through a global and interdisciplinary team approach among three institutions in Beijing, Hong Kong and Seoul. This course requires students to go out into global society and industry companies beyond (China, Hong Kong, Korea) for seeking and defining a global user-centered design problem by themselves, to develop the engineering design alternative to solve it, and then to build a working critical function prototype. Through the course, students will cultivate the ability of “global first movers,” who can develop a product and technology which has not existed before. This course requires to execute a design project by composing a global and interdisciplinary design team, which consists of students from the three universities. Students will collaborate through online tools as well as 3 face-to-face meetings throughout the semester in the three respective campuses. This course provides various lectures such as marketing, industrial design, patent law, creative thinking, conceptual design methodology, and case studies in problem creation. Cross-college faculty patent attorney, external experts provide individual and team mentoring for student projects. Graded P or F. Instructor's approval is required for enrollment in the course.
ENTR4903E - Student-led Entrepreneurship Acceleration Project (3)
Description: 	Many successful IT startups begin in university years. This is a project course led by students to accelerate their entrepreneurship endeavor under the guidance and advice of a faculty member. Students work in team of size 2 to 3 to develop an idea from its scratch to become viable in market. In the process, students work on ideation, prototyping, making presentations, developing operation strategies, conducting experimental trials, designing market survey, collecting user feedbacks, writing business plan, and soft-launching and pivoting the product or services.
Written reports, presentations, and/or business/operation plan are required. May be repeated for credits if different topics are taken. Instructor's approval is required for enrollment in the course.
ENVR1001 - EVMT Orientation (0)
Description: 	This is a year-long seminar series designed to help freshmen year students adapt to university life. Topics such as learning and time management skills, purpose of university education, and planning for personal and career development will be covered. For EVMT students in their first year of study only. Graded P or F.
ENVR1070 - Thinking Big: Systems Thinking for Environmental Problems (3)
Attribute:	(S&T)
Description: 	This course is about developing systems thinking skills to solve complex environmental problems. Systems thinking emphasizes the “big picture”, linkages and interactions. Through an activity-based course students will develop systems diagramming skills, concepts and find unconventional solutions for complex environmental problems.
ENVR1080 - The Smart Consumer - Uncovering the Hidden Story behind the Product Label (3)
Attribute:	(S&T)(SA)
Description: 	The choices we make in daily life - the food we eat, the clothes we wear, the products and services we use - define our lifestyle. Many people intend to consume in a sustainable manner, but with vague “green promises,” complex ingredient lists, and opaque production processes, we often do not know what is inside the products we use and how they were made. This course will investigate the ingredients hidden in everyday products and explore features that make them unsustainable by applying a product life-cycle approach. The course will also provide insights into the factors that influence our consumption and give students opportunities (through small exercises, activities, and discussions) to explore ways in which smart consumption can be promoted and in which consumer-felt responsibility for sustainability can be increased.
ENVR1811 - Environmental Management and Technology Study Trip I (1)
Previous Code: 	ENVR 2810
Description: 	The course is a study trip that will provide students with the opportunity to travel with a faculty member to various study sites that have a diversity of environmental or sustainability issues and see and discuss issues at the site with practitioners. The course will require students to prepare a presentation on one particular site and write a reflective report on their experience. Approval from instructor is needed for enrolling in the course. Grade P or F.
ENVR2001 - Academic and Professional Development I (1)
Previous Code: 	ENVR 1000
Description: 	This is the first course of the series designed to assist students in developing attributes necessary for professional growth. This course is a one-year course designed to provide academic advising to students, to enhance their understanding of the latest environment topics, and to improve their communication skills. Students are required to attend discussion sessions with advisors and selected seminars. For EVMT students only. Graded P or F.
ENVR2002B - Life Cycle Analysis (3)
Description: 	This class is an introductory class for students to gain an overview of environmental impacts of products and production systems and how they can be quantified through Life Cycle Assessment/Analysis (LCA). The focus of the course is to provide the relevant concepts and software tools to enable students to assess the environmental performance of products using LCA and apply learned skills to their own projects in the future.
ENVR2010 - Environmental Science Fundamentals (3)
Description: 	Understanding our environment, including the ecology, biodiversity and cycles of environmental ecosystems, human environmental impacts such as climate change, energy use, chemical toxicology, waste disposal, water and air pollution; conservation; exploration of new green technologies to reduce impacts, environmental law and changes in policies to ensure sustainability. Case studies through group projects.
ENVR2030 - Material and Energy Balance for Environmental Management (3)
Exclusion: 	CENG 2010 (prior to 2016-17), CENG 2110
Description: 	Material and energy balance provides a quantitative account for materials and/or energy redistribution when changes happen. It is a tool which can be used to predict or solve practical problems like pollution control and management, product life-cycle analysis and management of resources (e.g. energy, food and water) for sustainable development. This course will introduce students to the fundamental principles of material and energy balance as applicable to environmental management. Covered topics include pollution control and treatment and industrial/building energy management. For EVMT students only.
ENVR2310 - Introductory Environmental and Health Economics (3)
Attribute:	(SA)
Description: 	This course introduces students to basic theories and findings in environmental and health economics. The emphasis is on how the economic models and concepts can be used to analyze environmental and health issues. The course begins with an introduction of theoretical economic concepts and models; then it moves on to several policy-relevant environmental and health topics. Particular issues include externality, common goods and public goods, valuation of environmental goods and health, market failure and health, environmental regulations, pollution and health, and the economics of climate change. For students in their first and second year of study or those with approval from instructor for enrolling in the course.
ENVR3001 - Academic and Professional Development II (1)
Prerequisite: 	ENVR 2001
Previous Code: 	ENVR 2000
Description: 	This is second course of the series designed to assist students in developing attributes necessary for professional growth. This course is a one-year course designed to provide academic advising to students, to enhance their understanding of the latest environment topics, and to improve their communication skills. Students are required to attend discussion sessions with advisors and selected seminars. For EVMT students only. Graded P or F.
ENVR3003 - Green Buildings and Energy Efficiency (3)
Previous Code: 	ENVR 4000F
Description: 	This is an introduction to Green Buildings and their Energy Management. The course will consider Green Building attributes together with their economic, social and environmental impacts. Emphasis will be given to their energy conservation and resulting Carbon Dioxide emission reductions. For students in their second year of study and above.
ENVR3010K - Explore and Research the Atmospheric Environment - Engaging High School Community (2)
Description: 	EXPLORE (Explore and Research the Atmospheric Environment) is an integrated experimental platform developed by the HKUST air research team. EXPLORE consists of a hardware platform that allows participants to measure the air pollutants directly using high-school supportable facilities. The course Community EXPLORE: Science to Action, aims to (1) let interested undergraduates learn the technicality of the EXPLORE platform; (2) serve as an advisor to a secondary school on the EXPLORE platform; and (3) lead high school students to conduct some school based educational/research program related to improving their air quality. This is the first part of a two-semester sequel project course.
ENVR3110 - Sustainable Development (3)
Prerequisite: 	CIVL 1170 OR ENVR 1170
Exclusion: 	SOSC 3180 (prior to 2013-14)
Previous Code: 	ENVR 2110
Description: 	Sustainable development integrates improvements in human welfare with improvements in the health of the environment. It is societies attempt to solve the degradation that economic and social development has imposed on the environment. To solve environmental crises such as climate change, pollution, or destruction of biodiversity we need to integrate environmental practices into all our activities, pulling together new technologies, lifestyles, economic theories and business practices, and government policies. This course looks at how this process of integration works at the international, national, and municipal levels and from the organization perspectives of different industrial sectors, businesses, and communities.
ENVR3220 - Energy Resources and Usage (3)
Description: 	This course provides a non-technical overview of energy resources and their usage with a focus on policy issues and options related to ensuring adequate future supplies at acceptable prices and limiting environmental impacts. Environmental impacts will be considered primary with respect to air pollution, but also as appropriate, with attention to water quality and quantity impacts, and land degradation resulting from energy extraction, conversion, and use. Concerns about potential resource exhaustion (e.g. peak oil), future prices, climate change (and strains on other planetary boundaries) will also be considered.
ENVR3420 - Environmental Law and Regulations (3)
Description: 	The course will provide students with the basic legal concepts which include the hierarchy of courts in Hong Kong, the difference between civil and criminal proceedings and their possible redresses or remedies available from the courts. Important provisions of the basic environmental legislation in Hong Kong, environmental prosecution policy of Hong Kong and how to investigate a judicial review against a ministerial decision relating to the environment will also be covered in the course.
ENVR4000O - Climate Modeling and Risk Assessment (3)
Prerequisite: 	MATH 1003 OR MATH 1012 OR MATH 1013 OR MATH 1014 OR MATH 1020 OR MATH 1023 OR MATH 1024
Description: 	The primary aim of this course is to convey fundamental scientific knowledge of the Earth’s climate system, to develop the technical skill for climate modeling and analysis, and to understand the relationship between the impact of climate change and strategies to manage associated risks. Emphasis will be placed on the “practical exercise” for the simulation of future climate in response to anthropogenic greenhouse gases using the web-based global climate model (EdGCM) with a user-friendly interface that can be run on laptop or desktop computer. Through this practice, students will learn full scientific processes related to climate modeling such as experimental design, running simulation, data analysis, and interpretation of results. On this foundation, the latter half of the course will be shifted to the topics for the identification and assessment of the risks from climate extremes. Eventually, students will have familiarity with climate modeling techniques and better sense to grapple with a myriad of complex climate issues.
ENVR4001 - Academic and Professional Development III (1)
Prerequisite: 	ENVR 2001 and ENVR 3001
Previous Code: 	ENVR 3000
Description: 	This is the third course of the series designed to assist students in developing attributes necessary for professional growth. This course is a 2-semester course designed to provide academic advising to students, to enhance their understanding of the latest environment topics, and to improve their communication skills. Students are required to attend discussion sessions with advisors and selected seminars. For EVMT students only. Graded P or F.
ENVR4010B - Independent Study in Environment Issues (1)
Description: 	Faculty directed independent study of selected topics in Environmental issues.  For EVMT students and students with consent from the instructor. Graded P or F.
ENVR4980 - Environmental Management and Technology Capstone Project I (3)
Description: 	Each EVMT student is required to complete a capstone project before graduation. This is the first course of a two-term project in which the student can synthesize and apply knowledge from their courses. The project is conducted under the supervision of a faculty member.
ENVR4990 - Environmental Management and Technology Capstone Project II (3)
Prerequisite: 	ENVR 4980
Description: 	Continuation of ENVR 4980.
ENVR5250 - Environmental Economics and Management (3)
Previous Code: 	ENVR 525
Vector: 	[3-0-0:3]
Description: 	The course is designed to introduce students to key contemporary concepts in environmental economics and equip them with the approaches in economics that are generally applied to analyze environmental problems and policies.
ENVR5260 - Environmental Policy and Management (3)
Previous Code: 	ENVR 526
Vector: 	[3-0-0:3]
Description: 	This course focuses both on how to make and how to study environmental policy and management. It will review major theories related to the formulation of environmental policies, including government regulation and economic incentives, and discuss the types of policy measures implemented in various public and business sectors. The discussion of environmental problems and policies will focus on examples that are relevant for Hong Kong and the Chinese Mainland, but will also include the experience of other countries and the debate surrounding global environmental issues.
ENVR6050 - Introduction to Oceanography (3)
Previous Code: 	ENVR 605, AMCE 605
Vector: 	[3-0-0:3]
Description: 	An introduction to the fundamentals of physical, chemical, geological, geochemical, and biological oceanography. It unveils the mystery of the oceans including the formation of the continents, oceanic circulation, and formation of precious minerals in the deep oceans; discovers ocean resources from phytoplankton to fish. The course will lay the foundation for sustainable use of the oceans and discuss human threats such as global warming, overfishing, and coastal pollution.
ENVR6100A - Independent Study (1)
Previous Code: 	ENVR 610A
Vector: 	[1 credit]
Description: 	Study on selected topics in environmental science under the supervision of a faculty member. The course may be repeated once for credits if the topic is different. Graded P or F.
ENVR6770 - Professional Development in Environmental Science, Policy and Management (1)
Vector: 	[0-1-0:1]
Description: 	This one-credit course aims at providing research postgraduate students basic training in teaching skills, research management, career development, and related professional skills. This course consists of a number of division-specific workshops. Graded PP, P or F.
ENVR6990 - MPhil Thesis Research (0)
Previous Code: 	ENVR 699, AMCE 699
Description: 	Master's thesis research supervised by a faculty member. A successful defense of the thesis leads to the grade Pass. No course credit is assigned.
ENVR7990 - Doctoral Thesis Research (0)
Previous Code: 	ENVR 799, AMCE 799
Description: 	Original and independent doctoral thesis research. A successful defense of the thesis leads to the grade Pass. No course credit is assigned.
ENVS2001 - Environmental Conservation and Sustainability in Practice (1)
Description: 	Students will visit various field sites of Hong Kong (for example, Mai Po Nature Reserve, marine parks, research laboratories under our Environmental Science Programs, government facilities). Through this course, students are expected to gain more ideas and enhanced appreciation on local conservation/sustainability efforts, and be inspired about how to apply academic knowledge in practice. Graded P or F. Cantonese may be used in field trips, in some situations. Instructor’s approval is required for enrolling in the course. Priority will be given to ENVS students.
ENVS2004 - Introduction to Ocean Science (3)
Prerequisite: 	LIFS 1030 OR PHYS 1003
Previous Code: 	ENVS 3003
Description: 	The ocean defines the features of our planet. The ultimate goal of the course is to promote and enhance ocean literacy, which means the awareness and understanding of fundamental concepts of the history, functioning, and utilization of the ocean. By the end of this course students will understand the ocean's influence on individuals and their influence on the ocean. The course will cover a wide range of topics including ocean physics, marine chemistry, marine geology, and biological oceanography.
ENVS3001 - Pollution Monitoring and Measurement (3)
Prerequisite: 	CHEM 1030 OR CHEM 2311
Description: 	Students will learn the science background and monitoring techniques of environmental pollutants, which include the behavior of contaminants in water, sample collection, biological and chemical analyses, experimental design, and data analysis. Students will also be introduced to the advanced research infrastructure on campus. Through the course, students will gain essential background and skills for conducting environmental research or pursuing a career in the environmental field. Students are required to have sufficient background of life science and chemistry. For ENVS students only.
ENVS3005 - Environmental Microbiology (3)
Prerequisite: 	LIFS 1030 OR LIFS 2060
Description: 	The course aims to introduce the students to (i) the fundamental features of microorganisms that live in the natural environment, (ii) the roles of the microorganisms in natural processes that drive our ecosystem, such as biogeochemical cycling, interactions with plants and animals, (iii) the use of the microorganisms in environmental technology. Key concepts are illustrated with real-life examples and case studies.
ENVS4001 - Environmental Impact and Risk Assessment (3)
Prerequisite: 	CHEM 1030 OR LIFS 1030
Description: 	This course gives an overview on the relationships between human health, environment, and sustainable development. Topics include the development and objectives of environmental impact and risk assessment; impacts of environmental quality (including air, water, wastes, ecology) and health risks; assessment and mitigation, public participation; sustainable development. Case studies and guest lectures will be included. For ENVS, LIFS and CHEM students in their third and fourth year of study only.
ENVS4974 - Environmental Science Project Research I (3)
Description: 	Students will undertake a research project in an area of environmental science under faculty supervision. This course is the first course of a two-term research project. The research training includes experimental design, data analysis, and oral presentation. For ENVS students only. Instructor’s approval is required for enrollment in the course.
ENVS5111 - Environmental Health and Safety (3)
Vector: 	[3-0-0:3]
Description: 	This course identifies the potential health and safety hazards in the environment. It also emphasizes on the importance of environmental health and safety (EHS) for moral, legal and financial reasons. EHS systems as well as legislation and public organizations in Hong Kong, China and overseas will also be discussed and compared.
ENVS5112 - Environmental Hazards Identification (3)
Vector: 	[3-0-0:3]
Description: 	This course aims to provide in-depth knowledge on the potential effects of environmental hazards on the abiotic and biotic environment through various routes and does of exposure. Current approaches of managing chemical, biological, physical and mechanical hazards in the environment will be addressed.
ENVS5113 - Marine Ecotoxicology (3)
Exclusion: 	LIFS 5320
Vector: 	[3-0-0:3]
Description: 	This course introduces the impacts and toxic effects of environmental pollutants on growth, morphology and species richness of marine organisms with emphasis at the population, community and ecosystem level. Concepts and methods to assess the impacts of toxicants in marine organisms and environment will also be discussed.
ENVS5114 - Environmental Diseases and Microbiology (3)
Vector: 	[3-0-0:3]
Description: 	This course aims to study microorganisms in the natural environment and their potential impacts on human beings. Pesticides, chemicals, radiation, air and water pollution are the manmade hazards that are believed to contribute to human illness. Microorganisms or environmental agents cause airborne and waterborne infectious diseases as well as microbial biodegradation of pollutants will also be discussed.
ENVS5118 - Conservation and Sustainable Development (3)
Exclusion: 	LIFS 5300 (prior to 2013-14)
Vector: 	[3-0-0:3]
Description: 	This course aims to address the importance of different elements and practices in conserving our biodiversity. It also introduces the concept of sustainable development to meet the future needs and balance the objectives between society, economy and environment. It explores ways of finding solutions to the challenges through the promotion of sustainable development.
ENVS6011K - Postgraduate Seminar (1)
Vector: 	[1 credit]
Description: 	Advanced seminar series presented by postgraduate students, faculty and guest speakers on selected topics in atmospheric environmental science or marine environmental science offered in Fall/Spring terms. This course may be repeated for credit. Graded P or F.
ENVS6111A - Environmental Health Research Project (3)
Previous Code: 	ENVS 6111
Vector: 	[3 credits]
Description: 	This course enables students to conduct an independent project in selected areas of environmental health and safety under the supervision of one or more Faculty members. Students shall consult the list of topics provided by the Faculty members and choose to conduct a literature review-based or lab work-based project. A project carrying 3 credits will take place over one regular term. A lab work-based project carrying  6 credits will take place over two consecutive regular terms, and the permitted to proceed (PP) grade will be issued at the end of the first term. Students are required to submit written reports of their works and present the major findings in a symposium attended by peers and faculty members. This course is for MSc students only. Approval from course instructor is required. The course may be repeated for credits.
ENVS6111B - Environmental Health Research Project (6)
Vector: 	[6 credits]
Description: 	This course enables students to conduct an independent project in selected areas of environmental health and safety under the supervision of one or more Faculty members. Students shall consult the list of topics provided by the Faculty members and choose to conduct a literature review-based or lab work-based project. A project carrying 3 credits will take place over one regular term. A lab work-based project carrying  6 credits will take place over two consecutive regular terms, and the permitted to proceed (PP) grade will be issued at the end of the first term. Students are required to submit written reports of their works and present the major findings in a symposium attended by peers and faculty members. This course is for MSc students only. Approval from course instructor is required. The course may be repeated for credits.
ENVS6770 - Professional Development in Science (Environmental Science Programs) (2)
Vector: 	[0-2-0:2]
Description: 	This two-credit course aims at providing research postgraduate students basic training in ethics, teaching skills, research management, career development, and related professional skills. This course lasts for one year, and is composed of two parts, each consisting of a number of mini-workshops. Part 1 of the course is coordinated by the School; and Part 2 consists of some ENVS department-specific workshops which are coordinated by the ENVS programs. Graded PP, P or F.
ENVS6990 - MPhil Thesis Research (0)
Description: 	Master's thesis research supervised by a faculty member. A successful defense of the thesis leads to the grade Pass. No course credit is assigned.
ENVS7990 - Doctoral Thesis Research (0)
Description: 	Original and independent doctoral thesis research. A successful defense of the thesis leads to the grade Pass. No course credit is assigned.
EVNG6050M - Environmental Engineering Seminar (0)
Vector: 	[0-1-0:0]
Description: 	Seminar topics presented by students, faculty and guest speakers. Students are expected to attend regularly and demonstrate proficiency in presentation in accordance with the program requirements. Graded P or F.
EVNG6770 - Professional Development in Environmental Engineering (1)
Vector: 	[0-1-0:1]
Description: 	This one-credit course aims at providing research postgraduate students with basic training in teaching skills, research management, career development, and related professional skills. This course consists of a number of mini-workshops. Some specific workshops will be coordinated by Program of EVNG. Graded PP, P or F.
EVNG6990 - MPhil Thesis Research (0)
Previous Code: 	EVNG 699
Description: 	Master's thesis research supervised by a faculty member.  A successful defense of the thesis leads to the grade Pass.  No course credit is assigned.
EVNG7990 - Doctoral Thesis Research (0)
Previous Code: 	EVNG 799
Description: 	Original and independent doctoral thesis research.  A successful defense of the thesis leads to the grade Pass.  No course credit is assigned.
EVSM5220 - Advanced Environmental Chemistry (3)
Previous Code: 	EVSM 522, ENVR 522, AMCE 522
Vector: 	[3-0-0:3]
Description: 	The course provides an in-depth coverage of topics on inorganic and organic environmental contaminants, their structures, functions, sources and emissions, distribution, transformation and fate in the environment.
EVSM5230 - Environmental Health and Management (3)
Previous Code: 	EVSM 523
Vector: 	[3-0-0:3]
Description: 	The course will give an overview on environmental health and management, including topics on outdoor and indoor environments, workplace environment, water and sewage, food, solid waste, hazardous wastes, vectors and control, radiation, environmental health standards, natural and manmade disasters, risk assessment and management, etc. Each topic will include nature of the issue, known and potential health effects, control and regulatory approaches. More in-depth discussions will be given to occupational health hazards, with emphases on current control methods and technology.
EVSM5240 - GIS for Environmental Professionals (3)
Previous Code: 	EVSM 524
Vector: 	[3-0-0:3]
Description: 	Introducing GIS concepts, working with spatial data, managing GIS data, integrating GIS data with Google Earth/Map, remote sensing and model data, applying GIS technology to support environmental planning and management.
EVSM6950A - MSc Project (3)
Previous Code: 	EVSM 695A
Vector: 	[3 credits]
Description: 	An independent project on selected topics in environmental science under the supervision of a faculty member. Participation of external organizations in these projects will be particularly encouraged. The responsibility of control, administration and assessment of the projects rests with the University. The course may be repeated once for credits. This course is for MSc students only. Approval from instructor is required.
EVSM6950B - MSc Project (3)
Previous Code: 	EVSM 695B
Vector: 	[3 credits]
Description: 	An independent project on selected topics in environmental science under the supervision of a faculty member. Participation of external organizations in these projects will be particularly encouraged. The responsibility of control, administration and assessment of the projects rests with the University. The course may be repeated once for credits. This course is for MSc students only. Approval from instructor is required.
FINA1303 - Introduction to Financial Markets (3)
Attribute:	(SA)
Description: 	Introduction to money and capital markets; money instruments; financial institutions; and markets for various securities, including stocks, bonds, and derivatives; and the currency pegging system in Hong Kong.
FINA2203 - Fundamentals of Business Finance (3)
Exclusion: 	FINA 2303
Description: 	For BIBU and non-SB&M students. This course provides an introduction to corporate finance for students who may not have background in accounting and business statistics. Topics include financial statement analysis, time value of money, bond and stock valuation, capital budgeting, risk and return concepts and cost of capital.
FINA2303 - Financial Management (3)
Prerequisite: 	ACCT 2010 and ISOM 2500
Exclusion: 	FINA 2203
Description: 	For SB&M students only. This course provides an introduction to corporate finance. Topics include time value of money, bond and stock valuation, capital budgeting, risk and return concepts and cost of capital.
FINA3103 - Intermediate Investments (3)
Prerequisite: 	FINA 2203 or FINA 2303
Exclusion: 	FINA 3103H
Previous Code: 	FINA 3104
Description: 	This course studies the concepts and evidence relevant to the management of investment portfolios. Topics include diversification, asset allocation, portfolio optimization, factor models, the relation between risk and return, trading, passive (e.g., index-fund) and active (e.g., hedge-fund, long-short) strategies, mutual funds, performance evaluation, long-horizon investing and simulation.
FINA3203 - Derivative Securities (3)
Prerequisite: 	FINA 3103
Exclusion: 	FINA 3203H
Previous Code: 	FINA 3204
Description: 	This course covers options, forward contracts, futures contracts and swaps. By the end of this course, students will have a good knowledge of how derivative contracts work, how they are used and how they are priced.
FINA3303 - Intermediate Corporate Finance (3)
Prerequisite: 	FINA 2203 OR FINA 2303
Exclusion: 	FINA 3303H
Previous Code: 	FINA 4104
Description: 	The course provides an in-depth treatment of long-term financing decisions, including estimation of the cost of capital, financial leverage, corporate distress, raising financing, dividend policy, and working capital analysis.
FINA3403 - Corporate Valuation (3)
Prerequisite: 	FINA 3303
Exclusion: 	FINA 3403H
Previous Code: 	FINA 4204
Description: 	This course teaches students how to use financial information to value firms. By the end of this course, students will be able to value firms using discounted cash flow valuation, relative valuation, and real options.
FINA3810 - Bloomberg Market Concepts Certification (0)
Description: 	The course aims to provide students with knowledge of financial markets and Bloomberg functionality. The course consists of four modules: economic indicators, currencies, fixed income and equities. Students will need to complete all four modules to receive the Bloomberg Market Concepts certification. Graded P or F. For students with major in FINA and QFIN only.
FINA4003 - Wealth Management (3)
Prerequisite: 	FINA 3103
Previous Code: 	FINA 3604
Description: 	This course focuses on a broad understanding of financial and investment issues arising in the context of personal wealth management. Students will gain an understanding of the nature and use of various financial products and legal instruments for developing a financial plan. It covers topics such as client financial status and expectations, portfolio management, securities trading, managed funds, insurance, and tax and estate planning.
FINA4503 - Banking and Financial Intermediation (3)
Prerequisite: 	FINA 2203 OR FINA 2303
Previous Code: 	FINA 3504
Description: 	This course examines financial intermediaries with a particular emphasis on banks. It introduces students to the nature, purpose, and management of these institutions. The course also brings together the upstream issues in risk measurement and the regulative environment surrounding banks. By the end of this course, students will be able to understand the role of banks in the economy and the effects of frictions such as information asymmetry and agency costs on bank behavior. The course will start with the review of basic game theory.
FINA4929J - Behavioral Finance (3)
Prerequisite: 	FINA 3103
Description: 	This course discusses behavioral finance concepts. Topics include traditional finance approach, behavioral finance approach, limits to arbitrage and market anomalies, psychological foundations in cognition, emotion and social forces, and heuristics and behavioral biases.
FINA4929K - Applications of New Technologies in Finance (3)
Prerequisite: 	FINA 3103
Description: 	The course focuses on the recent financial technology (Fintech) trends, artificial intelligence and deep learning and their applications in finance. Fintech has been a hot buzzword in the past few years, though finance has always been, especially in areas of payment, quantitative trading and banking, impacted by technology. Students will learn basic coding in Python, gain an understanding in neural network and the recent developments in the financial industry with respect to the use of this methodology.
FINA5120 - Corporate Finance (2)
Exclusion: 	IMBA 5070
Previous Code: 	FINA 512
Vector: 	[2-0-0:2]
Description: 	Valuation of cash flow streams (PV of cash flow streams, annuities, and perpetuities); valuation of bonds; valuation of stocks using dividend discount model; capital budgeting decisions (NPV, IRR, payback); capital structure; limits to the use of debt (trade-off models); estimation of cost of debt and equity; WACC; terminal value.
FINA5160 - Private Equity Investing (2)
Previous Code: 	FINA 6900F
Vector: 	[2-0-0:2]
Description: 	This course covers the private equity business from a practitioner's perspective and is oriented around the life cycle of an investment. There will be a focus on how the industry operates in Asia and throughout the course, participants will examine situations from the perspective of various stakeholders involved. Topics will include: 1. Overview of the private equity industry in Asia 2. Identifying investment opportunities and valuation 3. Structuring and negotiating term sheets 4. Understanding risks and the due diligence process 5. Monitoring, managing and exiting portfolio investments
FINA5210 - Investment Analysis (2)
Previous Code: 	FINA 521
Vector: 	[2-0-0:2]
Description: 	An introduction to fundamental concepts in investment analysis. The first part covers risk and return tradeoff, portfolio diversification, and modern portfolio theory including the capital asset pricing model and arbitrage pricing theory. The second part covers basic analytical tools used in analyzing fixed income securities. Topics include interest rates and yield curve mathematics, duration and convexity.
FINA5220 - Equity Investment Management (2)
Prerequisite: 	FINA 5210
Previous Code: 	FINA 522
Vector: 	[2-0-0:2]
Description: 	The course covers the complete investment process including: constructing investment objectives, outlining investment policies; choosing asset allocations; monitoring investments; and measuring performance.  Practical issues relating to investment style, active management, and passive management are discussed. Advanced techniques in portfolio construction such as the Black-Litterman model and multi-factor models are studied.
FINA5290 - Derivatives Analysis (2)
Prerequisite: 	FINA 5120
Previous Code: 	FINA 529
Vector: 	[2-0-0:2]
Description: 	Basic characteristics of derivatives instruments such as forwards, futures, options, and swaps. Topics include pricing of futures and forward contracts, forward-spot basis risk, option strategies, put-call parity and introduction to the Black-Scholes model. The development and use of interest rate and currency swaps are also discussed.
FINA5360 - Fixed Income Analysis (2)
Prerequisite: 	FINA 5210
Previous Code: 	FINA 536
Vector: 	[2-0-0:2]
Description: 	Includes techniques in fixed-income portfolio management and introduction of fixed-income derivatives. Topics include term-structure theories, yield-curve fitting techniques and yield curve trading strategies, portfolio performance evaluation, floating rate securities, forward rate agreements, bond and interest rate futures, and interest rate swaps.
FINA5380 - Raising Debt in the Financial Markets (2)
Prerequisite: 	FINA 5120 or FINA 5210
Previous Code: 	FINA 538, FINA 690I
Vector: 	[2-0-0:2]
Description: 	This course is designed to develop an in-depth understanding of the choices open to companies in terms of debt financing, and to provide students with an introduction to the domestic and international debt financial markets.
FINA5390 - Venture Capital and Private Equity (2)
Prerequisite: 	FINA 5120
Previous Code: 	FINA 539
Vector: 	[2-0-0:2]
Description: 	Topics include: (1) An overview of the venture capital and private equity markets in Asia; (2) Deal structuring; (3) Valuation techniques; (4) Due diligence and post-investment management; (5) Understanding the terms in term sheets; (6) Negotiating term sheets; (7) Going public, trade sale and other exit strategies.  Real-world examples from throughout Asia will be used to illustrate these topics.
FINA5590 - Trading in Equity Markets (2)
Prerequisite: 	FINA 5290
Previous Code: 	FINA 559, FINA 690X
Vector: 	[2-0-0:2]
Description: 	This course aims to give participants an insight into finance in action, focusing on the equity market.  The emphasis will be on real life market problems.  Led by a market practitioner, it will look at, amongst other things, how a trading floor works and the different forces and factors that lead to a market behaving in the way that it does.  Students will apply knowledge gained in other courses in practical situations with a distinction on where theory differs from practice, and an emphasis on the needs of market practitioners.
FINA6900P - Behavioral Finance for Wealth Management and Private Banking (2)
Corequisite: 	FINA 5210
Vector: 	[2-0-0:2]
Description: 	This course aims to help the participants apply the behavioral finance concepts in wealth management and private banking. Firstly, it briefly reviews the traditional approach to asset allocation. Secondly, it discusses the theoretical framework of behavioral finance in asset allocation in terms of the prospect theory, SP/A theory, behavioral portfolio theory and goals-based strategy. Next, it examines the issues of risk profiling and investor characterization. Then, it explains the major behavioral biases possibly committed by wealth management and private banking clients and the diagnostic tests to identify them. Last but not least, it explores the possible applications of behavioral finance concepts in wealth management and private banking. The course content lays a good foundation to understand the CFA examination curriculum in behavioral finance.
FINA6900Q - Financial Markets and Bank Intermediation (2)
Vector: 	[2-0-0:2]
Description: 	This course aims to help the participants understand a number of special topics in financial markets and bank intermediation. The first topic discusses the financial system, different types of financial markets and rationale for bank intermediation. The underlying reasons for bank intermediation include payment mechanism, liquidity provision, maturity and denomination transformation, risk transformation, economy of scale and asymmetric information. The next topic examines financial market microstructure including trading, traders and trade facilitators, different trading systems, types of orders, block trades and odd lots, regulated short selling, security margin trading, liquidity, and impacts of algorithmic trading and FinTech. The first two topics lay a good foundation to understand the CFA examination Level 1 curriculum in Market Organization and Structure (Equity). The third topic is related to recent cases of financial shenanigans in financial markets in terms of accounting tricks and financial gimmicks. These tricks and gimmicks are illustrated through a number of case studies. The final topic examines the issue of renminbi internationalization. Participants will join forces to understand this last topic through their own research, presentations and reports.
FINA6900S - Real Estate Financing (2)
Prerequisite: 	ACCT 5150 AND FINA 5120
Vector: 	[2-0-0:2]
Description: 	Real estate is an important industry in Asia Pacific with long term potential given continued urbanization, increasing wealth and strong economic growth. Financing is an important decision factor determining returns for developers and investors in real estate. For banks, real estate financing is an important business given the relatively large size of the industry. This course focuses on how real estate financing is undertaken and the key considerations for the borrower and the lender. This is achieved through a master case study which runs through the duration of the course and evolves as different aspects of real estate financing are discussed. The course will focus on the key steps in a transaction life-cycle and require participants to prepare basic cashflow models, approval memos and termsheets including presenting them. Some additional case studies around hedging will cover specific considerations around cross border real estate investments which is a big focus for global real estate investors.
FINA6970A - Independent Study (1)
Previous Code: 	FINA 697S
Vector: 	[1 credit]
Description: 	Study of selected financial issues under the supervision of a faculty member. (Special permission from the Associate Dean is required for MBA students to take this course.)
FINA7900C - Doctoral Seminar: Empirical Corporate Finance (3)
Prerequisite: 	FINA 790I prior to 2011-12; FINA 7900A from 2011-12
Exclusion: 	FINA 790J prior to 2011-12
Vector: 	[3-0-0:3]
Description: 	This course covers major topics in empirical corporate finance. A large part of this course is devoted to examining research questions in capital structure, corporate investments, and corporate governance. The focus is on the more recent literature in these broad areas of corporate finance. The goal of the course is to help students get ready for doing their own research.
FINA7900D - Doctoral Seminar: Empirical Asset Pricing (3)
Prerequisite: 	FINA 7900B (or FINA 790E prior to 2011-12)
Exclusion: 	FINA 790C prior to 2011-12
Vector: 	[3-0-0:3]
Description: 	Part one of the course covers various issues and empirical methods in asset pricing studies. Empirical issues regarding time-series properties of asset prices are discussed first, followed by the cross-sectional implications of asset pricing models. Applications in bond, currency, and futures markets will also be discussed. Part two of the course is designed to provide students with the exposure to empirical finance, with the focus on investment and behavioral finance.
FINA7980M - Finance Workshops (1)
Vector: 	[0-1-0:1]
Description: 	Papers presented by faculty, students and visitors.  Mandatory for all PhD students.  May be repeated for credit.  Graded P or F.
FINA7990 - Doctoral Thesis Research (0)
Previous Code: 	FINA 799
Description: 	Original and independent doctoral thesis research.  A successful defense of the thesis leads to the grade Pass.  No course credit is assigned.
FYTG6990 - MPhil Thesis Research (0)
Previous Code: 	FYTG 699
Description: 	Master's thesis research supervised by a faculty member.  A successful defense of the thesis leads to the grade Pass.  No course credit is assigned.
GBUS1000 - Global Leadership Development (0)
Description: 	The course is designed to promote students' personal development, teamwork, communications skills, career preparation, leadership capability, and a global mindset. For GBUS students only. Grade PP, P or F.
GBUS2020 - Public Service Project (1)
Description: 	This is a project-based service-learning course with the aim to nurture students' passion in socially responsible leadership. Students will collaborate with a non-governmental organization to design, lead, and implement a service project. For GBUS students only. Graded P or F.
GBUS3030 - Global Business Case Studies (4)
Description: 	This is an advanced case studies course that develops students' proficiency in conducting business problem solving and presentations under conditions simulating real business settings. For GBUS students or students with consent from the instructor.
GBUS3040 - Doing Business in Asia and Emerging Markets (3)
Description: 	This course intends to develop a deep understanding of the contextual factors of Asia and emerging market countries, with a specific emphasis on the risks, challenges and mitigants to doing businesses in these countries. In studying key social, cultural economic, geographical, political and historical characteristics of these countries, it is expected that students will gain a good understanding of how business is conducted as well as the constraints, risks and challenges associated with doing businesses in these countries, such as financial, political, legal, operational and technical risks. In addition, this course aims to explore how country differences impact on business strategies and managerial decision-making in different countries. For GBUS students or students with instructor's approval only.
GBUS4910 - Capstone Project (4)
Description: 	The course is designed for final year GBUS students to synthesize skills and knowledge learned from the program by undertaking a challenging individual or team capstone project. For GBUS students only.
GFIN6980 - Integrative Project in Global Finance (4)
Previous Code: 	GFIN 698
Vector: 	[4 credits]
Description: 	The aim of the project is to enable students to apply what they have learned in each course unit and to draw on their practical experience in the global banking and financial markets.  Students are assigned to work in groups on a team project throughout the year and will culminate with a presentation to a panel of faculty.
GNED2510 - Career Building (1)
Attribute:	
Description: 	Non-designated GEE
HART1014 - Introduction to Chinese Calligraphy (1)
Attribute:	
Description: 	CommonCore (A&H special list) for 10&11 3Yprograms
HART1017 - Introduction to Contemporary Dance (1)
Attribute:	
Description: 	CommonCore (A&H special list) for 10&11 3Yprograms
HART1018 - Introduction and Appreciation of Chinese Dance (1)
Attribute:	
Description: 	CommonCore (A&H special list) for 10&11 3Yprograms
HART1025 - Introduction to New Topographic Photography (1)
Attribute:	
Description: 	CommonCore (A&H special list) for 10&11 3Yprograms
HART1036 - Introduction to Graphic Design (1)
Attribute:	
Description: 	CommonCore (A&H special list) for 10&11 3Yprograms
HART1041 - Singing on Stage (1)
Attribute:	
Description: 	CommonCore (A&H special list) for 10&11 3Yprograms
HART1044 - Science on Stage (1)
Attribute:	
Description: 	CommonCore (A&H special list) for 10&11 3Yprograms
HART1045 - Exploring Puppetry: Creating a Shadow Puppet Production (1)
Attribute:	
Description: 	CommonCore (A&H special list) for 10&11 3Yprograms
HLTH1010 - Healthy Lifestyle (0)
Attribute:	(HLTH)
Description: 	A compulsory, one-year course for all undergraduates to learn how to maintain a well-balanced and healthy lifestyle that will help them to manage their lives, learning, transitions and holistic development. Students will complete at least 45 hours of activities including physical and wellness assessments, sports skill classes, organized sports and fitness events, community service, as well as enrichment topics, for example, mental health, wellness, transitions, student life, and personal growth. Students with special personal reasons may seek exemption from the Director of Student Affairs. Graded P or F.
HMMA5001 - Fundamentals of Chinese Culture (3)
Attribute:	
Exclusion: 	[3-0-0:3]
Vector: 	[C] Require Chinese reading
Description: 	HMMA 5000 This is an integrated multidisciplinary course on Chinese culture, aiming to provide students with a broad understanding of the perspectives and methodologies of humanistic studies on Chinese culture across various disciplines, including history, anthropology, literature, linguistics, philosophy and religion. Emphasis will be put on the introduction of fundamental concepts and general methodological/theoretical underpinnings of the studies of Chinese culture in humanities perspective. This is a compulsory foundation course for all students in the MA program in Chinese Culture.
HMMA5007 - Fundamentals of Chinese Philosophy (3)
Attribute:	[PU]
Exclusion: 	[3-0-0:3]
Vector: 	[C] Require Chinese reading
Description: 	HUMA 5800 This course is designed to guide students to in-depth researches into important issues in Chinese philosophy. The subject matter of the course may vary from one year to another depending on the particular interests of the instructors.
HMMA5470 - China in Foreigners’ Eyes (3)
Exclusion: 	HUMA 5470
Vector: 	[3-0-0:3]
Description: 	Given the growing “China fever” nowadays and the rising global attention on China as the next superpower, this course aims to explore China “in and through foreigners’ eyes” by undergoing an in-depth examination of the variety of writings and observations by foreign individuals across different fields and disciplines from early 20th century to now.
HUMA1000A - Cultures and Values: Language, Communication and Society (3)
Attribute:	
Description: 	CommonCore (A&H special list) for 10&11 3Yprograms
HUMA1000B - Cultures and Values: Righteousness, Destiny and Well-being (3)
Attribute:	
Description: 	CommonCore (A&H special list) for 10&11 3Yprograms
HUMA1001A - Foundational Texts in the Humanities: Aristotle x Mencius - The Basic Concepts of Logic and Rhetoric (3)
Attribute:	
Description: 	CommonCore (A&H special list) for 10&11 3Yprograms
HUMA1100 - Music of the World (3)
Attribute:	
Description: 	CommonCore (A&H special list) for 10&11 3Yprograms
HUMA1102 - Enjoyment of Classical Music (3)
Attribute:	
Exclusion: 	CommonCore (A&H special list) for 10&11 3Yprograms
Description: 	Common Core (A&H) for 2012 3Y programs
HUMA1300 - Introduction to Western Literature (3)
Attribute:	
Description: 	CommonCore (A&H special list) for 10&11 3Yprograms
HUMA1430 - History of P. R. China's Diplomacy, 1949-1989 (3)
Attribute:	
Description: 	CommonCore (A&H special list) for 10&11 3Yprograms
HUMA1440 - Modern China (3)
Attribute:	
Exclusion: 	CommonCore (A&H special list) for 10&11 3Yprograms
Description: 	Common Core (A&H) for 2012 3Y programs
HUMA1810 - Introduction to Chinese Philosophy (3)
Attribute:	
Exclusion: 	CommonCore (A&H special list) for 10&11 3Yprograms
Description: 	Common Core (A&H) for 2012 3Y programs
HUMA1920 - Introduction to Moral Philosophy (3)
Attribute:	
Description: 	CommonCore (A&H special list) for 10&11 3Yprograms
HUMA2010 - Metaphors in English and Chinese (3)
Attribute:	
Description: 	CommonCore (A&H special list) for 10&11 3Yprograms
HUMA2031 - The Cantonese Language (3)
Attribute:	
Description: 	CommonCore (A&H special list) for 10&11 3Yprograms
HUMA2103 - Introduction to Music Composition (3)
Description: 	(1) Course Content: Through a progressive series of composition projects, students learn the organizational skill of musical composition and performances, focusing on the basics of unity and variety; promoting students' understanding of humanistic experiences, creativities and emotions. Weekly listening, reading, and composition assignments draw on a broad range of musical styles and intellectual traditions, from various cultures and historical periods. (2) Advice on the background of Students: Students are required to have the ability to sing or to play one or more musical instruments (e.g. Grade 3 in Royal Schools Music Exam or equivalent). The ability to read music and the knowledge to music notation are preferable, but not required.
HUMA2104 - Music Theory I (3)
Attribute:	
Exclusion: 	CommonCore (A&H special list) for 10&11 3Yprograms
Description: 	Common Core (A&H) for 2012 3Y programs
HUMA2240 - Masterpieces of Chinese Literature (3)
Attribute:	
Description: 	CommonCore (A&H special list) for 10&11 3Yprograms
HUMA2320 - Chinese Drama (3)
Attribute:	[PU]
Description: 	[C] Require Chinese reading
HUMA2589 - Mussolini, Stalin, Hitler: Dictators and their Regimes (3)
Attribute:	
Description: 	CommonCore (A&H special list) for 10&11 3Yprograms
HUMA2621 - Culture and Environment (3)
Attribute:	
Description: 	CommonCore (A&H special list) for 10&11 3Yprograms
HUMA2623 - Cultural Sustainability in South China (3)
Attribute:	
Description: 	CommonCore (A&H special list) for 10&11 3Yprograms
HUMA2633 - Before Mao: Traditional Chinese Society from 1800 to 1949 (3)
Attribute:	
Exclusion: 	CommonCore (A&H special list) for 10&11 3Yprograms
Description: 	Common Core (A&H) for 2012 3Y programs
HUMA2680 - Understanding Western Architecture (3)
Attribute:	
Description: 	CommonCore (A&H special list) for 10&11 3Yprograms
HUMA2921 - Ethical Theories and Contemporary Issues (3)
Attribute:	
Exclusion: 	CommonCore (A&H special list) for 10&11 3Yprograms
Description: 	Common Core (A&H) for 2012 3Y programs
HUMA3101 - Enjoyment of Western Opera (3)
Attribute:	
Description: 	CommonCore (A&H special list) for 10&11 3Yprograms
HUMA3102 - Making Chamber Music A (2)
Previous Code: 	HUMA 3000G
Description: 	Through weekly coaching sessions and public performances, students will learn all facets of chamber music making at a high level. Students will also learn team-building skills and develop attentiveness to partners in an ensemble. This is a course for students who are highly motivated, and sufficiently trained and experienced in classical music performance. Enrollment in the course requires instructor's approval based on audition outcome.
HUMA3630 - Community and Cultural Identity (3)
Attribute:	
Description: 	CommonCore (A&H special list) for 10&11 3Yprograms
HUMA3660 - Tradition & Modernity: Chinese Ink Painting in 20th Century (3)
Attribute:	
Description: 	CommonCore (A&H special list) for 10&11 3Yprograms
HUMA3810 - Taoism and the Chinese Tradition (3)
Attribute:	
Description: 	CommonCore (A&H special list) for 10&11 3Yprograms
HUMA4020 - Language and Literature in Modern China (3)
Attribute:	[CA][PU]
Prerequisite: 	[C] Require Chinese reading
Description: 	HUMA 1010 OR HUMA 1440 OR HUMA 3030 OR HUMA 3200
HUMA4250 - Masterpieces of Modern Literature (3)
Description: 	A close study of selected masterpieces of modern literature, mainly fiction and poetry, by Chinese and Western authors of the twentieth century.
HUMA5280 - Cantonese Grammar in Contemporary Linguistic Theories (3)
Attribute:	[PU]
Previous Code: 	[3-0-0:3]
Vector: 	[C] Require Chinese reading
Description: 	HUMA 528, HUMA 600F
HUMA5340 - Modern Chinese Literary Criticism (3)
Attribute:	[PU]
Previous Code: 	[3-0-0:3]
Vector: 	[C] Require Chinese reading
Description: 	HUMA 534
HUMA5470 - China in Foreigners' Eyes (3)
Exclusion: 	HMMA 5470
Previous Code: 	HUMA 6001S
Vector: 	[3-0-0:3]
Description: 	Given the growing "China fever" nowadays and the rising global attention on China as the next superpower, this course aims to explore China "in and through foreigners' eyes" by undergoing an in-depth examination of the variety of writings and observations by foreign individuals across different fields and disciplines from early 20th century to now.
HUMA5590 - Southwest China and Southeast Asia (3)
Attribute:	
Vector: 	[C] Require Chinese reading
Description: 	[3-0-0:3]
HUMA5625 - Painting and Modernity in China: Qing and After (3)
Attribute:	[PU]
Previous Code: 	[3-0-0:3]
Vector: 	[C] Require Chinese reading
Description: 	HUMA 6002F This course examines the manifestations and expressions of modernity, both as artistic subjectivity and socioeconomic condition, in Chinese painting. Issues such as tradition and innovation, artistic autonomy and commercialization, reform and western influence, etc., will be discussed by looking at painters and their artistic productions from the late Qing to the post-Mao era.
HUMA5660 - City and Urban Life in Late-Imperial and Modern China (3)
Attribute:	
Previous Code: 	[3-0-0:3]
Vector: 	[C] Require Chinese reading
Description: 	HUMA 566
HUMA5695 - Fascism (3)
Exclusion: 	HUMA 602N
Vector: 	[3-0-0:3]
Description: 	This course aims to provide students with an introduction to the comparative study of twentieth-century dictatorships. Course readings will focus on Italian Fascism and National Socialism, but the overarching theoretical perspectives will be relevant to students of non-European dictatorships as well.
HUMA5700 - Anthropological Studies of China (3)
Attribute:	
Exclusion: 	[3-0-0:3]
Previous Code: 	HMMA 5006, MGCS 5031
Vector: 	[C] Require Chinese reading
Description: 	HUMA 5540, HUMA 554 Anthropological consideration of Chinese culture and society. Special topics in Chinese anthropological studies, such as kinship, ethnicity, religion, and regional system.
HUMA5840 - Chinese Buddhism (3)
Attribute:	[PU]
Previous Code: 	[0-3-0:3]
Vector: 	[C] Require Chinese reading
Description: 	HUMA 584
HUMA6001U - Traveling Texts and Images: Modern Chinese Literature and Print Culture (3)
Attribute:	
Vector: 	[C] Require Chinese reading
Description: 	[3-0-0:3]
HUMA6100A - Independent Study (3)
Previous Code: 	HUMA 610A
Vector: 	[3 credits]
Description: 	Independent study on a particular subject under the supervision of a faculty member; requires readings, tutorial discussions, and submission of one or more research papers; may be repeated for credit if different topics are studied. Regular students are required to enroll in a 3-credit course. Enrollment in a course below 3 credits requires the Division's approval.
HUMA6300 - Postgraduate Seminar (1)
Vector: 	[0-1-0:1]
Description: 	Students are required to register in HUMA 6300 Postgraduate Seminar for two regular terms. Students are expected to attend public lectures/seminars organized in each regular term and then present a research paper and serve as discussant in a one-day symposium to be held in the second term. Graded PP, P or F.
HUMA6990 - MPhil Thesis Research (0)
Previous Code: 	HUMA 699
Description: 	Master's thesis research supervised by a faculty member.  A successful defense of the thesis leads to the grade Pass.  No course credit is assigned.
HUMA7990 - Doctoral Thesis Research (0)
Previous Code: 	HUMA 799
Description: 	Original and independent doctoral thesis research.  A successful defense of the thesis leads to the grade Pass.  No course credit is assigned.
IBTM5050 - Intelligent Building System (3)
Previous Code: 	IBTM 505
Vector: 	[3-0-0:3]
Description: 	Automation, communication and security; mechanical, electrical, electronic subsystems and their integration with the building envelope; environment, energy and sustainability; configuration and operational characteristics; performance specifications; analytical models; design methods; and case studies.
IBTM5150 - Advanced HVAC Systems (3)
Previous Code: 	IBTM 515
Vector: 	[3-0-0:3]
Description: 	This course introduces the advanced heating, ventilation, air-conditioning and refrigeration systems.  Topics include refrigeration, psychometrics, solar radiation, heating and cooling loads in buildings and design of duct and piping systems.  Theory and analysis are emphasized throughout.
IBTM5300 - Computational Methods in Building Environment Design (3)
Previous Code: 	IBTM 530
Vector: 	[3-0-0:3]
Description: 	Fluid dynamics and transport of energy and contaminants in building environment; modeling of turbulent mixing; concepts and techniques of computational fluid dynamics (CFD); applications of CFD to indoor and outdoor environmental problems; case studies and projects.
IBTM5330 - Energy Management in Buildings (3)
Previous Code: 	IBTM 533
Vector: 	[3-0-0:3]
Description: 	Renewable and non-renewable energy resources, review of energy conversion technologies, energy use in domestic/non-domestic buildings, energy economics, design guides, energy management and energy auditing.
IBTM5460 - Materials in Built Environment (3)
Previous Code: 	IBTM 546
Vector: 	[3-0-0:3]
Description: 	Overview of materials issues in indoor environment as related to the structural and environmental performance of buildings, including organic sources of pollution. Detailed coverage on the materials science of building materials will be covered not only from the physical and chemical perspective, but also from the performance and pollution perspective. The learned materials science will be illustrated using practical cases studies on structural, thermal and environmental performance.
IBTM5500 - Occupational Safety and Health Issues in Buildings (3)
Previous Code: 	IBTM 550
Vector: 	[3-0-0:3]
Description: 	This course introduces various occupational safety health issues in buildings, particularly those required by the Occupational Safety and Health Ordinance and other local regulations.  Emphasis will be on the practical aspects of fire and life safety, lighting, general ventilation, exhaust ventilation, occupational hygiene, and hazardous material management.
IBTM6950A - Independent Studies (3)
Previous Code: 	IBTM 695A
Vector: 	[0-0-0:3]
Description: 	An independent project carried out under the supervision of a faculty member. May be graded PP.
IBTM6950B - Independent Studies (6)
Previous Code: 	IBTM 695B
Vector: 	[0-0-0:6]
Description: 	An independent project carried out under the supervision of a faculty member. May be graded PP.
IDPO6770 - Professional Development for Interdisciplinary Programs (1)
Vector: 	[0-1-0:1]
Description: 	This one-credit course aims at providing research postgraduate students basic training in ethics, teaching skills, research management, career development, and related professional skills. This course consists of a number of mini-workshops. Graded PP, P or F.
IELM1010 - Academic and Professional Development I (0)
Description: 	A compulsory one-year course for IELM students. This course aims to provide academic and professional advising to students and to develop their technical and non-technical communication skills. Industrial and academic seminars will be offered. Graded P or F.
IELM1020 - Academic and Professional Development II (0)
Description: 	A compulsory one-year course for IELM students, which is a continuation of IELM 1010. Graded P or F.
IELM2010 - Industrial Engineering and Modern Logistics (3)
Attribute:	(S&T)
Exclusion: 	IELM 2200
Description: 	This course provides an introduction to industrial engineering (IE). It comprises of two parts. The first part introduces basic IE analytical tools, such as optimization, game theory, probability and statistics, stochastic processes and simulation, at a conceptual level. In the second part, many of the IE practical concepts, including production and operations management, logistics and supply chain management, financial engineering, are introduced.
IELM2150 - Product Design (3)
Description: 	Fundamentals of product design from an industrial engineering perspective, including market research and communication, process design and evaluation, design for manufacturability/assembly, design for usability and safety, aesthetics design, and design for reuse. Methods and theories of design and case studies are presented.
IELM2410 - Logistics and Freight Transportation Operations (3)
Description: 	Introduction to intermodalism, globalization, third-part logistics, carrier logistics, shipper logistics, manufacturing logistics, supply chain management, and rules, conventions and practices in various transportation modes. Discussion of characteristics, issues, and practices of air cargo systems, surface transportation systems, sea freight operations, and terminal operations.
IELM3010 - Operations Research I (3)
Corequisite: 	MATH 2111
Exclusion: 	CIVL 2170, IELM 3020 (prior to 2014-15), ISOM 3710, PHYS 4059
Description: 	Introduction to deterministic optimization modeling and algorithms. Topics include linear programming, dynamic programming, network flows, and some nonlinear models. Application softwares.
IELM3130 - Ergonomics and Safety Management (3)
Prerequisite: 	IELM 2510
Description: 	Introduction to ergonomics and safety management.  Work environment stressors and their reduction.  Technical compliance of Occupational Safety and Health Ordinance and their respective laws in UK, EC, and US.  Accident causation models.
IELM3150 - Manufacturing Processes (3)
Description: 	Machine tools, tools and tooling. Machining, fabrication, joining, assembly, and welding. Experiments in cutting tool performance involving tool geometry, speed, surface finish, tool life and production economics associated with those variables. Concepts of NC, CNC.
IELM3330 - Introduction to Financial Engineering (3)
Prerequisite: 	CIVL 2160 OR ELEC 2600 OR IELM 2510 OR ISOM 2500 OR MATH 2411 OR MATH 2421 OR MATH 2431
Exclusion: 	FINA 3203, FINA 4303
Description: 	This course is intended to provide an introduction to important aspects of financial engineering. Specifically, this course will primarily cover fundamentals of the financial system, interest rate and term structure, various financial markets, financial derivatives, option pricing and hedging, risk management, and financial modeling.
IELM3410 - Routing and Fleet Management (3)
Prerequisite: 	IELM 3010
Description: 	Applications and algorithms for network optimization, vehicle routing, shortest path problems, maximum flow problems, matching models and dynamic vehicle allocation.
IELM3450 - Logistics Planning and Service Management (3)
Exclusion: 	ISOM 3760
Description: 	Supply management, purchasing, store management, distribution of goods and services, pricing; productivity in services, training and services logistics.
IELM4200 - Design of Logistics and Manufacturing Systems (3)
Prerequisite: 	IELM 3010
Description: 	Facility location, process and material flow analysis, space allocation and plant layout, computerized layout planning, material handling equipment, material handling system design.
IELM4410 - Global Supply Chain Management (3)
Prerequisite: 	IELM 4100
Exclusion: 	EEMT 5300, ISOM 4770
Description: 	An introduction to the design, development, and management of integrated logistics supply chain systems, including inventory management, distribution channels, and information systems. Emphasis on the impact of e-business on companies and industries, especially how the Internet changes the way in which goods and services flow through the value chain from manufacturers to customers.
IELM4930 - Logistics Management and Engineering Project (6)
Description: 	A one year long final year project related to logistics engineering and management. Supervised by a faculty member. A project proposal and a final report are required. Credit load will be spread over the year.
IELM4950A - Industrial Engineering Special Project (1)
Description: 	A special project supervised by a faculty member. A project proposal and a final report are required. May be repeated for credit if the projects cover different topics.
IELM4990 - Industrial Engineering Design Project (6)
Description: 	A one year long final year project related to industrial engineering and engineering management. Supervised by a faculty member. A project proposal and a final report are required. Credit load will be spread over the year.
IELM5170 - Advanced Production Planning and Control (3)
Exclusion: 	ISOM 5700
Previous Code: 	IELM 517, IEEM 517
Vector: 	[3-0-1:3]
Description: 	Operation mission and modern production planning and control systems. MRP, JIT , and OPT methods. Integrated processes and systems design. Software packages will be introduced through a simulated company environment.
IELM5230 - Deterministic Models in Operations Research (3)
Prerequisite: 	IELM 3010
Previous Code: 	IELM 523, IEEM 523
Vector: 	[3-0-0:3]
Description: 	This course focuses on the theory and the use of deterministic optimization models for real life decision making problems. It covers linear, integer, combinatorial and nonlinear programming.
IELM5260 - Advanced Quality Technology and Data Analytics (3)
Previous Code: 	IELM 526, IEEM 526
Vector: 	[3-0-0:3]
Description: 	Fundamental principles of quality technology and data analytics, including planning, designing, and analyzing statistical experiments, randomized block, factorial, and fractional factorial experimental designs, and other advanced statistical learning and machine learning techniques with application to quality and industrial engineering.
IELM5270 - Engineering Statistics (3)
Vector: 	[3-0-0:3]
Description: 	The course introduces more advanced concepts of probability and statistics to postgraduate students. It will cover transformations of multivariate random variables, estimation theory, hypothesis testing, analysis of variance, and regression models. This course assumes the knowledge of multivariable calculus and statistics.
IELM6100E - Auction Theory and Mechanism Design (3)
Vector: 	[3-0-0:3]
Description: 	Mechanism design is to find the optimal rules (mechanism) of a game towards any desired objectives or social outcomes from engineering side. This course is designed to introduce students to the basics of mechanism design and its applications. It aims to provide a general framework for students to study any decision problem that involves strategic interactions of participants. This course consists of two parts. The first part introduces basic concepts and classic literature in mechanism design theory and auction theory, such as incentive compatibility, individual rationality, budget balanced, direct mechanism, revelation principle, mechanism design with or without payment, Bayesian or dominant strategy mechanism, VCG mechanism, Myerson’s revenue maximization mechanism. The second part focuses on the applications in the engineering field; e.g., eBay auction, Internet advertising, Spectrum allocation, Bandwidth sharing.
IELM6770 - Professional Development in Industrial Engineering and Logistics Management (1)
Vector: 	[0-1-0:1]
Description: 	This one-credit course aims at providing research postgraduate students with basic training in teaching skills, research management, career development, and related professional skills. This course consists of a number of mini-workshops. Some department-specific workshops will be coordinated by Department of IELM. Graded PP, P or F.
IELM6800M - Departmental Seminar (0)
Vector: 	[1-0-0:0]
Description: 	Series of seminars by faculty and guest speakers, repeated every term. Research postgraduate students are expected to attend regularly and register for at least two terms. Graded P or F.
IELM6850M - Advanced Seminar (0)
Vector: 	[2-0-0:0]
Description: 	An in-depth study of a current research area in Industrial Engineering and Logistics Management. Offerings are announced each term. Graded P or F.
IELM6990 - MPhil Thesis Research (0)
Previous Code: 	IELM 699, IEEM 699
Description: 	Master's thesis research supervised by a faculty member. A successful defense of the thesis leads to the grade Pass. No course credit is assigned.
IELM7990 - Doctoral Thesis Research (0)
Previous Code: 	IELM 799, IEEM 799
Description: 	Original and independent doctoral thesis research. A successful defense of the thesis leads to the grade Pass. No course credit is assigned.
IIMP2000 - Academic and Professional Development (0)
Description: 	This course is designed to assist students in developing attributes necessary for professional growth throughout their studies in the IIM program. It will also provide academic advising to students, to enhance their job hunting skills and, to improve their communication skills. Students are required to attend discussion sessions with advisors and selected workshops. For IIM students only. Graded P/PP/F.
IIMP4980 - Interdisciplinary Capstone Project I (3)
Description: 	Each IIM student is required to complete a capstone project before graduation. This is the first course of a two-term project in which the student can synthesize and apply skills and knowledge learnt from the program. The project is conducted under the supervision of the student’s Individualized Major Advisory Committee (IMAC). For IIM students only. Maybe graded PP.
IMBA5020 - Management Strategy (2)
Exclusion: 	MGMT 5410
Previous Code: 	IMBA 502
Vector: 	[2-0-0:2]
Description: 	Concepts and techniques for competitive environment analysis, SWOT analysis, strategic options; corporate strategy formulation and implementation, sustainability; competitiveness; dynamics of corporate strategy.
IMBA5040 - Managerial Economics (2)
Exclusion: 	ECON 5110
Previous Code: 	IMBA 504
Vector: 	[2-0-0:2]
Description: 	Demand and cost analysis; competitive market; market power; pricing strategy; games and strategic thinking, asymmetric information, corporate governance.
IMBA5120 - Technology and Knowledge Management (1)
Exclusion: 	ISOM 5020
Previous Code: 	IMBA 512
Vector: 	[1-0-0:1]
Description: 	This course aims to provide business executives with a comprehensive understanding of IT management in organizational contexts, particularly from the perspective of business and management. The specific topics include Information Economy, Management of R&D and Innovations, Strategic Use of Information Technology and Knowledge Management. The course will survey the economically most important applications of technology in business today and briefly present the underlying technologies, their resource requirements, their application, and the operational, tactical and strategic management imperatives dictated by these applications.
IMBA5170 - Business Simulation (2)
Previous Code: 	IMBA 517
Vector: 	[2-0-0:2]
Description: 	A computer-based business simulation where students operate as teams simulating corporate management and compete against each other (groups). The game involves group decision making on a wide range of functional areas, such as finance, marketing, manufacturing, and human resource management, to develop and implement a strategic plan in a competitive market.
IMBA5210 - Consumer Psychology and Advertising (1)
Exclusion: 	EMBA 5460
Previous Code: 	IMBA 521
Vector: 	[1-0-0:1]
Description: 	This course will give students an appreciation of how getting inside the mind of the consumer enables the marketing manager to design better, more effective marketing strategies. It focuses on the customer as an individual, with a particular emphasis on how consumers react to marketing information provided about a product.
IMBA5300 - Innovation Management (1)
Vector: 	[1-0-0:1]
Description: 	The course aims to enhance students' innovation capability in the increasingly intense business competition. It will illustrate the basic concepts of innovation management, interpret the implication of innovation, highlight how to integrate internal and external resources to enhance innovation capacity and analyze the innovation modules in the post-modernization era.
IMBA6910 - Current Issues for Businesses (1)
Previous Code: 	IMBA 691
Vector: 	[1-0-0:1]
Description: 	This course is specially tailored to provide the latest market update and analysis for current hot topics relevant to the business world, in particular to address the challenges and opportunities in the context of China. Topics include but not limited to corporate governance, crises management, risk management, innovation, entrepreneurship, intellectual property rights, etc..
ISOM1380 - Technology and Innovation: Social and Business Perspectives (3)
Attribute:	(SA)(SSC-SA)
Description: 	This course describes the development of technology and innovation from social and business perspectives.  It covers the technology side of innovations, how an invention can be developed into a successful commercial product, the role of innovation in society and how innovations are created from a socioeconomic perspective.  It highlights that successful development and adoption of innovative products relies not only on the technology itself but also a complex process that is subject to the impact of cultural, political, economic and managerial factors.
ISOM1500 - Insightful Decisions (3)
Attribute:	(QR)(SA)(SSC-SA)
Description: 	The course helps students develop better analytical and decision making skills in approaching practical and important social and business issues. Students will derive solutions or conclusions that require critical thinking, creativity, quantitative analysis, and common sense. Cover topics in decision traps, quantitative decision models, statistical reasoning, computer tools, data-analysis techniques, etc. and, more importantly, how these decision analysis concepts and tools can be applied in a broad set of social and business problems.
ISOM2010 - Introduction to Information Systems (3)
Exclusion: 	COMP 1001
Description: 	Information systems (IS) is about managing the applications of IT to create business values. Topics include fundamental concepts of IS, e-commerce, digital and internet economy, web 2.0 and social networks, online advertising, personalization and privacy, digital rights management and piracy, business intelligence and decision-making, how organizations harness IS for innovative business strategies, and the socio-economic impact of IS on organizations and societies. The labs cover business problem-solving skills.
ISOM2030 - Business Protections for Innovations (3)
Attribute:	(SA)
Description: 	This course addresses the problems and challenges related to regulatory and business protections for business and scientific innovations, product innovations, service innovations, software licenses, encryption, innovation reengineering, trademark, copyright, music downloading, digital entertainment, data mining and personal privacy.
ISOM2500 - Business Statistics (3)
Exclusion: 	CIVL 2160, IELM 2510, LIFS 3150, MATH 2411, MATH 3423
Description: 	Collection, tabulation and presentation of numerical data; concepts of probability and probability distributions; sampling; statistical estimation and hypothesis testing; correlation and regression analysis.
ISOM2700 - Operations Management (3)
Exclusion: 	IELM 4100, ISOM 2720 (prior to 2013-14)
Description: 	For SB&M students, and programs that designate the course as a required/recommended elective course.  Production and service operations viewed from the strategic, tactical and operational levels; capacity planning, process selection, impact of technology location and layout, material and resource requirements, scheduling and quality control.
ISOM3000A - Business Programming in R (3)
Prerequisite: 	ISOM 3230 AND ISOM 3360
Description: 	This course provides an introduction to business programming using R. Students will learn the programming concepts and syntax of R and develop R scripts for business applications. This course will cover practical issues for programming in R and provide working examples of emerging business applications, including Web crawling, text analytics, social network analysis, online advertising, and implementations of data mining algorithms.
ISOM3100 - Business Simulation and Strategic Decisions (3)
Description: 	This course combines a case study discussion approach to illustrate strategic decision making in business with an integrated hands-on business simulation exercise as part of the learning process.  Topics include making strategic choices and evaluating options and tradeoffs in a competitive business simulated industry environment.  The objective of the course is to develop a broad perspective in managerial decisions and an appreciation of economic and social factors that drive modern global organizations.
ISOM3180 - Telecommunications and Computer Networking Management (3)
Exclusion: 	COMP 4621
Description: 	Essential elements of telecommunications in support of business activities. Topics include OSI Model and TCP/IP Protocol Suite, LAN and WAN technology, voice and data communication technologies, communication architectures, networking and security, protocols and standards.
ISOM3210 - Information Systems Analysis and Design (3)
Prerequisite: 	ISOM 2010
Description: 	The process by which large software systems are built by teams of developers. Techniques for modeling data and process requirements are surveyed and illustrated using computer-aided software engineering (CASE) tools. Topics include information systems development life cycle and object-oriented systems analysis and design using UML.
ISOM3230 - Business Applications Programming (3)
Prerequisite: 	(For non-BSc in Quantitative Finance students) ISOM 2010
Exclusion: 	COMP 1022Q
Description: 	An introduction to business applications programming will be covered in this course. Students will learn and understand programming concepts and gain programming experiences for business applications development through a business programming language.
ISOM3260 - Database Design and Administration (4)
Prerequisite: 	ISOM 3230 OR ISOM 3320
Corequisite: 	ISOM 3210
Exclusion: 	COMP 3311, IELM 3300
Description: 	Fundamental concepts of database management systems and their usage for managing the information resources of an organization; methodologies for designing and managing a database system to support business applications.
ISOM3360 - Data Mining for Business Analytics (3)
Prerequisite: 	ISOM 2010
Exclusion: 	COMP 4331
Description: 	This course covers the fundamental concepts, technologies, and applications of business analytics to help firms gain a competitive advantage in the era of Big Data.  Topics include text mining, predictive analytics, search engine strategy, social network analysis, cloud computing, etc. Students will gain hands-on experience with popular data analytical tools.
ISOM3370 - Big Data Technologies (3)
Prerequisite: 	ISOM 3230
Description: 	In the era of "Big Data", organizations need a new infrastructure/platform to manage the storage and processing of large volume of data. This course introduces the emerging technological paradigm of big data management, as well as some common approaches that are used to gain insights from big data for business decision-making. In particular, it covers a range of big data technologies, including HDFS, MapReduce, Spark, Hive, Pig, etc., that allow for performing data-intensive analysis.
ISOM3540 - Introduction to Probability Models (3)
Prerequisite: 	ISOM 2500 or MATH 2411
Exclusion: 	MATH 2421, MATH 3425
Description: 	Probabilities, random variables, distribution functions, densities, expected values, conditional distributions and densities, conditional expectations, moment generating functions, Chebyshev's inequality, central limit theorem, and Poisson processes.
ISOM3710 - Management Science (4)
Exclusion: 	CIVL 2170, IELM 3010, IELM 3020 (prior to 2014-15), PHYS 4059
Description: 	Introduction to scientific approaches to informed decision making and technical methods for managerial problem solving; spreadsheet modeling in Excel is used throughout; two important frames: constrained optimization and decisions under risk; emphases on model formulation and solution interpretation; applications to a wide variety of management situations.
ISOM3730 - Quality and Process Management (4)
Exclusion: 	IELM 3270
Description: 	Concepts and strategic importance of quality, organizational aspects, total quality control, quality and productivity improvement programs, quality costs and economics.  Applications in industrial and service sectors.   Second or third year standing preferred.
ISOM3760 - Logistics Management (3)
Prerequisite: 	ISOM 2700
Exclusion: 	IELM 3450
Description: 	Management of purchasing and distribution of goods and services; supply management; material handling; pricing; transportation and warehousing; customer service standards. Second or third year standing preferred.
ISOM4020 - Innovation Management and Technology Entrepreneurship (3)
Description: 	The course focuses on innovation strategies and entrepreneurship skills that provide an intellectual structure for understanding the issues of how entrepreneurial firms recognize potential of an innovation on time, how they implement the right strategies to exploit the innovation, and how to protect their profits from competitors.  The course also explores the increasingly global character of entrepreneurial firms, and how successful technology companies compete across cultures, markets and nations.
ISOM4100 - Information Systems Auditing and Security (3)
Prerequisite: 	ACCT 2010 and ISOM 2010
Description: 	The course provides a comprehensive approach for auditing information systems including specific procedures and illustrative case studies useful for auditors and information security professionals.  It provides the tools required for audits and covers physical, logical and environmental security; security certifications; computer forensics; e-commerce and Internet security; information privacy laws and regulations; and project management controls.
ISOM4400 - Information Systems Project (6)
Exclusion: 	ISOM 4380, ISOM 4390 (prior to 2012-13)
Description: 	Development of an information system with substantial complexity through the use of methodologies and technologies. May be graded PP. Student enrollment in this course requires the approval of the course instructor. Credit load will be spread over the year.
ISOM4530 - Statistical Analysis of Financial Data in R/S-plus (4)
Prerequisite: 	IELM 2510 OR ISOM 2500 OR MATH 2411
Previous Code: 	ISOM 4590A
Description: 	This course intends to introduce the students to modern data analysis with an emphasis on financial applications. In this course, students will study the data exploration methods, applications of regression and time series, gain experience in analyzing financial data; and become proficient in using statistical software (R or S-Plus) to do estimation, modeling, and forecasting.
ISOM4740 - Enterprise Resource Management (3)
Prerequisite: 	ISOM 2700
Description: 	Basic concepts and practices of enterprise resource management; popular enterprise resource planning software packages, such as SAP R/3 for discussing and building integrated business solutions.
ISOM4750 - Business Project Management (3)
Prerequisite: 	ISOM 2700
Description: 	This course covers basic principles and practices of business project management.  Special emphases are on project planning, scheduling, and control while addressing both the technical and the social aspects of managing business projects.
ISOM4770 - Supply Chain Management (3)
Prerequisite: 	ISOM 2700
Description: 	Single node inventory control, supply chain network, demand management, manufacturing and replenishment in supply chains, information and coordination in supply chains, product variety management. For students in their third year (under three-year curriculum) or fourth year (under four-year curriculum) of study only. Other students should seek instructor’s approval for enrollment in the course.
ISOM4820 - Revenue Management (3)
Prerequisite: 	ISOM 2700 AND ISOM 3710
Description: 	This course focuses on how a firm should set and update pricing and product availability decisions across its various selling channels in order to maximize its profitability. Through a combination of case studies, lectures and class activities, the course will review the main methodologies and different pricing strategies used in different industries. The goal is for students to learn to identify and exploit opportunities for revenue optimization in different business contexts.
ISOM4840 - Financial Service Operations Management (3)
Prerequisite: 	(ISOM 2500 OR MATH 2411) AND ISOM 2700
Description: 	This course focuses on the products, processes and delivery channels in the financial industries. It analyzes and evaluates the designs and performances of the internal operations and the different distribution channels of the financial institutions, and identifies opportunities for continuous improvement in productivity, efficiency and service quality. Issues like operational risk management, application of IT, automation, outsourcing and new trends in the financial service operations for both financial institutions and non-financial institutions will be explored.
ISOM5020 - Information and Technology Management (2)
Exclusion: 	IMBA 5120, ISOM 5100
Previous Code: 	ISOM 502, ISMT 502
Vector: 	[2-0-0:2]
Description: 	A general manager's perspective on the strategic roles of information and technology in companies, overview of enabling technologies, how information systems are developed and managed, and how to make technology management decisions.
ISOM5100 - Information Strategy and Management (2)
Exclusion: 	ISOM 5020
Previous Code: 	ISOM 510, ISMT 510
Vector: 	[2-0-0:2]
Description: 	Examination of economic principles of information systems strategy, highlighting application of economics and management principles to the unique environment of information services and information-enabled competition.
ISOM5130 - Outsourcing Management (2)
Previous Code: 	ISOM 611B
Vector: 	[2-0-0:2]
Description: 	This course examines the phenomenon of business process outsourcing that are enabled by technological innovations.  Topics include the benefits and risks of outsourcing, management challenges associated with outsourcing, effective vendor management, and techniques for managing outsourcing activities and risks.
ISOM5180 - Applied Network Management (2)
Previous Code: 	ISOM 518, ISMT 518
Vector: 	[2-0-0:2]
Description: 	In an interconnected economy, the management of network applications becomes increasingly important.  This course provides an overview of the basic networking management principles and concepts.  Both theoretical knowledge and practical training in applications of network management (e.g. Cisco) are included.
ISOM5200 - Innovation and Intellectual Property Law (2)
Previous Code: 	ISOM 520, ISMT 520
Vector: 	[2-0-0:2]
Description: 	This course addresses legal issues from a managerial perspective related to business process innovations, patent law, copyright law, and trademark laws.  Topics related to international issues and challenges arising from new business models and innovative processes, including but not limited to discussions of legal issues associated with electronic commerce and internationally integrated supply-chain logistics processes.  No legal training or background is required.
ISOM5230 - Consumer Privacy Management in the Information Economy (2)
Previous Code: 	ISOM 610A
Vector: 	[2-0-0:2]
Description: 	This course provides an overview of information privacy and management in the information economy. It covers the fundamental concepts and dimensions of privacy; the impact of Internet marketing, customer relationship management, Web
personalization, and data mining on consumer privacy; privacy enhancing technologies; and regulation of business practices.
ISOM5270 - Big Data Analytics (2)
Previous Code: 	ISOM 527, ISMT 527
Vector: 	[2-0-0:2]
Description: 	Data plays an increasingly important role in business decision making. This course introduces the key concepts and applications of business analytics in the world of Big Data. Example business problems to be solved analytically include customer relationship management, financial trading, social media marketing, search engine strategy, etc. Hands-on experience with popular data analytical tools will be included.
ISOM5290 - Information Systems Development Methodologies (2)
Previous Code: 	ISOM 529, ISMT 529
Vector: 	[2-0-0:2]
Description: 	This course provides an overview of the principles of information systems (IS) development methodologies.  Topics include process modeling, object-oriented modeling, data flow diagramming, use case modeling, UML, and management issues in IS development.
ISOM5370 - Technology and Innovation Management (2)
Previous Code: 	ISOM 537, ISMT 537, ISMT 610R
Vector: 	[2-0-0:2]
Description: 	Technology and innovation management (TIM) plays an important role in enhancing the competitiveness of firms, industries, and even nations.  This course provides a comprehensive introduction to TIM from strategic perspectives and addresses key issues such as technology and innovation decision making, open innovation system, lead user innovation, intellectual property portfolio management, and national innovation system.  Specifically, it will highlight how technology can facilitate corporate innovation.  Students will obtain basic skills in formulating TIM-based competitive strategies.
ISOM5450 - Technology Consulting (2)
Previous Code: 	ISOM 6000C
Vector: 	[2-0-0:2]
Description: 	This course is designed for students from different professions to become skilled in using consulting tools to analyze issues, evaluate solutions from multiple dimensions of people, process, technology and governance, and then use a framework for IT strategy recommendations for effective communication.  Students will learn how to apply these technology consulting tools to the latest technology trends, such as big data, e-commerce, e-recruitment, security, etc. facing today's businesses.
ISOM5460 - Project Management (2)
Exclusion: 	ISOM 5770, MIMT 5350
Previous Code: 	ISOM 546, ISMT 546
Vector: 	[2-0-0:2]
Description: 	This course covers the essential project management skills to ensure successful implementation of high-technology projects.  Topics include investment decisions, resource planning, budgeting, scheduling, outsourcing, and risk assessment and control, as major components of the PMBOK (Project Management Body of Knowledge).
ISOM5480 - Technology Entrepreneurship (2)
Previous Code: 	ISOM 550, ISMT 610Y
Vector: 	[2-0-0:2]
Description: 	This course introduces the principles of technology entrepreneurship.  It provides an overview of the theory and best practices on developing innovative business models of the digital economy, and the strategy, structure and pricing related to new enterprises.  Topics include technology entrepreneurship, e-marketing, web 2.0 and enterprise 2.0, information in financial market, globalization, and the long tail.
ISOM5510 - Data Analysis (2)
Exclusion: 	IMBA 5100, ISOM 5520
Previous Code: 	ISOM 551, ISMT 551
Vector: 	[2-0-0:2]
Description: 	Covers various discrete and continuous probability models and their applications in business problems, estimation and testing of hypotheses, simple and multiple linear regression analysis. This is a core course for MBA.
ISOM5520 - Statistics for Financial Analysis (2)
Exclusion: 	ISOM 5510
Previous Code: 	ISOM 552, ISMT 552
Vector: 	[2-0-0:2]
Description: 	Application of various statistical concepts to investment and financial decisions including descriptive statistics, discrete and continuous probability distributions, sampling and estimation, hypothesis testing, correlation, and regression.
ISOM5540 - Introduction to Probability (3)
Exclusion: 	MATH 2421
Previous Code: 	ISOM 581, ISMT 581
Vector: 	[3-0-0:3]
Description: 	Axioms of probability, conditional probability and independence, permutations and combinations, density and distribution functions, examples of random variables, independence of random variables, transformations of random variables, order statistics, expected value, variance, higher moments; Chebychev's inequality, convergence concepts, moment generating functions, central limit theorem.  Graded P or F.
ISOM5620 - Visual Analytics for Business Decisions (2)
Vector: 	[2-0-0:2]
Description: 	This course focuses on various visualization analysis tools for business decisions. Making good use of visual analytics helps summarize and analyze large amount of data effectively. In this course, the topics like visualization framework, visual analytics for spatial, temporal, network and textual data, and dynamic visualization will be included. Reporting visualization results for business decisions will also be discussed.
ISOM5630 - Business Analytics in R (2)
Prerequisite: 	ISOM 5510
Vector: 	[2-0-0:2]
Description: 	The course intends to introduce students to modern data analysis using R, with an emphasis on business, in particular, financial applications. Main topics to be covered include data exploration methods, regression analysis and time series analysis.
ISOM5700 - Operations Management (2)
Exclusion: 	IELM 5170, IMBA 5110
Previous Code: 	ISOM 561, ISMT 561
Vector: 	[2-0-0:2]
Description: 	Introduction to management of business processes that produce goods or services: topics include operations strategy, process analysis, queuing systems, inventory management, quality management, process improvement and other important issues.
ISOM5701 - Operations Analytics (2)
Vector: 	[2-0-0:2]
Description: 	This course focuses on the critical issues in the design, production and delivery of tangible goods as well as intangible goods in the business world. Topics include process analysis, capacity and bottleneck issues, waiting time management, inventory management, quality management, lean systems, supply chain management and e-commerce. Quantitative and qualitative tools will be taught to analyze the problems and create innovative solutions.
ISOM5720 - ERP and Enterprise Systems Management (2)
Exclusion: 	ISOM 4740
Previous Code: 	ISOM 564, ISMT 564
Vector: 	[2-0-0:2]
Description: 	Concepts and practices of enterprise resource management; enterprise resource planning systems and applications, integrated systems approach to managing major business processes, business information reports and analyses.
ISOM5730 - Global Supply Chain Management (2)
Prerequisite: 	ISOM 5700
Exclusion: 	EEMT 5300, MIMT 5330
Previous Code: 	ISOM 567, ISMT 567, ISMT 669G
Vector: 	[2-0-0:2]
Description: 	Supply chain uncertainty and market fluctuation, information distortion and visibility, supply chain coordination and integration, supply chain incentives, flexibility, and design for supply chain management, supply chain strategies.
ISOM5800 - Business Modeling (1)
Exclusion: 	ISOM 5810
Previous Code: 	ISOM 580, ISOM 669B, MGMT 650F
Vector: 	[1-0-0:1]
Description: 	This course is open to all MBA students who need to utilize spreadsheets to create and analyze business models for decision making and/or managerial insights.  Practical exercises and case studies are used to illustrate the concepts and practices of business modeling and to build competency in using spreadsheets for advanced applications.  Graded P or F.
ISOM5810 - Business Modeling and Optimization (2)
Exclusion: 	ISOM 5800
Previous Code: 	ISOM 571, ISMT 571, ISMT 669I
Vector: 	[2-0-0:2]
Description: 	The science and technology of informed decision making with focus on optimizing business processes. Spreadsheet decision modeling in Excel used throughout. Emphasis on problem formulation, spreadsheet-based solution methods, and managerial insights. Applications to managerial decision problems in diverse industries and functional areas including finance and accounting, human resource, marketing, and operations.
ISOM6790G - Global Supply Chain (1)
Exclusion: 	ISOM 5730
Vector: 	[1-0-0:1]
Description: 	This course looks at the origins of modern supply chains, the forces that shape them, and their future development.  Topics covered include features of global trade, procurement practices, supply chain transparency & sustainability, risk management & mitigation, supply chain engineering & decision-making frameworks, distribution, logistics & last mile solutions, as well as future developments & disruptions.
ISOM6990 - MPhil Thesis Research (0)
Previous Code: 	ISOM 699, ISMT 699
Description: 	Master's thesis research supervised by a faculty member. A successful defense of the thesis leads to the grade Pass. No course credit is assigned.
ISOM7990 - Doctoral Thesis Research (0)
Previous Code: 	ISOM 799, ISMT 799
Description: 	Original and independent doctoral thesis research. A successful defense of the thesis leads to the grade Pass. No course credit is assigned.
JEVE5260 - Air Pollution Meteorology (3)
Exclusion: 	IBTM 5230 (prior to 2012-13), MECH 5260 (prior to 2012-13), MESF 526 (prior to 2011-12)
Previous Code: 	JEVE 526
Vector: 	[3-0-0:3]
Description: 	Atmospheric boundary layer, lapse rate, stability classification, atmospheric turbulence, dispersion modeling, boundary layer wind-tunnel.
JEVE5320 - Water Quality and Assessment (3)
Exclusion: 	CBME 5320, CENG 5320
Colist with: 	CBME 5320
Previous Code: 	JEVE 532
Vector: 	[3-0-0:3]
Description: 	Water quality standards, chemical, physical and biological contaminants in water. General laboratory measurements and instrumental analysis based on optical, electrical and chromatography methods. Toxicity and BOD tests. Pathogenic micro-organisms and microbial examination of water. Environment sampling and quality control and assurance.
JEVE5430 - Solid Waste Landfill Engineering Design (3)
Exclusion: 	CIVL 5460
Previous Code: 	JEVE 543
Vector: 	[3-0-0:3]
Description: 	Practical aspects of solid waste collection methods and equipment, current available disposal techniques with emphasis on complete engineering design of landfill systems, and landfill leachate treatment will be included.
JEVE5460 - Design and Management of Physico/Chemical Processes of Environmental Engineering (3)
Exclusion: 	CIEM 5460, CIVL 5410
Colist with: 	CIEM 5460
Previous Code: 	JEVE 546
Vector: 	[3-0-0:3]
Description: 	Principles, design and management practices of physico/chemical treatment processes for removing contaminants from drinking water and municipal wastewaters; includes coagulation and flocculation, sedimentation, air flotation, centrifugation, filtration, membrane, air stripping, carbon adsorption, disinfection, chemical oxidation processes, operation management and residual management.
JEVE5470 - Industrial Wastewater Treatment (3)
Exclusion: 	CIVL 5470
Previous Code: 	JEVE 547
Vector: 	[3-0-0:3]
Description: 	Procedures for industrial surveys, including waste sampling, waste characterization, treability studies, selection of treatment methods for achieving cost effective operation, case studies of selected types of industrial waste treatment.
JEVE5480 - Wastewater Treatment and Reuse (3)
Exclusion: 	CIEM 5480
Colist with: 	CIEM 5480
Previous Code: 	JEVE 548
Vector: 	[3-0-0:3]
Description: 	Theory and conceptual design of key unit processes and unit operations in domestic wastewater treatment and reuse with emphasis on applications of compact and advanced treatment technologies.
JEVE5820 - Energy, Environment and Sustainable Development (3)
Exclusion: 	CBME 5820, CENG 5910, ENEG 5050
Colist with: 	CBME 5820
Previous Code: 	JEVE 582
Vector: 	[3-0-0:3]
Description: 	This course attempts to highlight the basic issues on the relation between material/energy resources, the environment and sustainable development. Potential directions for technological changes on greater efficiency of energy utilization, exploitation of renewable energy, adoption of cleaner environmental practices and waste reduction that can lead to sustainable development will be explored. Management of energy and environment towards sustainability will be introduced.
JEVE6980B - Independent Project (6)
Previous Code: 	JEVE 698B
Vector: 	[0-0-0:6]
Description: 	This 3-6 credit project should be supervised by a faculty member who teaches a course in the program, subject to the approval of Program Director.
LABU2020 - Effective Communication in Business (2)
Prerequisite: 	LANG 1003
Previous Code: 	SBMT 2020
Description: 	The course organizes a student’s previously acquired English language skills into a useful managerial toolkit targeted toward specific business applications and strategies. Students learn how to adapt and apply their English language abilities to real-world assignments within their business major and, after graduation, to career tasks and opportunities. Positioned toward the latter portion of a student’s undergraduate business education, the course prepares students to succeed in their remaining university assignments (such as research tools, written tests, presentations, interviews, meetings, collaborative assignments, interpersonal communication and so forth) as well as the communication challenges they can expect in their careers. For students in their third or fourth year of study who have this course as a program requirement.
LABU2020G - Effective Communication in Business (2)
Prerequisite: 	LANG 1003
Previous Code: 	SBMT 2020G
Description: 	The course organizes a student’s previously acquired English language skills into a useful managerial toolkit targeted toward specific business applications and strategies. Students learn how to adapt and apply their English language abilities to real-world assignments within their business major and, after graduation, to career tasks and opportunities. Positioned toward the latter portion of a student’s undergraduate business education, the course prepares students to succeed in their remaining university assignments (such as research tools, written tests, presentations, interviews, meetings, collaborative assignments, interpersonal communication and so forth) as well as the communication challenges they can expect in their careers. For students in their third or fourth year of study who have this course as a program requirement.
LABU2040 - Business Case Analyses (3)
Prerequisite: 	LANG 1003
Description: 	This course seeks to equip students with persuasive communication skills, both oral and written, through analyzing business cases and presenting solutions to problems identified. It provides students with a solid framework and hands-on practice to communicate persuasively and professionally in business settings. In presenting the case problem, analysis and recommendations, students learn to identify issues, develop and organize key ideas, and eventually to persuade the audience of the validity of the arguments and proposed actions. The course sharpens students' ability to explain and support ideas logically, coherently and cohesively using various techniques, to communicate clearly, concisely and accurately, and in appropriate tone and style. Through a range of learning activities involving reading, discussion, writing and making oral presentations, students also develop critical reading, critical thinking and problem solving skills as well as teamwork and leadership skills. For students who have this course as a program requirement.
LABU2040G - Business Case Analyses (3)
Prerequisite: 	LANG 1003
Description: 	This course seeks to equip students with persuasive communication skills, both oral and written, through analyzing business cases and presenting solutions to problems identified. It provides students with a solid framework and hands-on practice to communicate persuasively and professionally in business settings. In presenting the case problem, analysis and recommendations, students learn to identify issues, develop and organize key ideas, and eventually to persuade the audience of the validity of the arguments and proposed actions. The course sharpens students' ability to explain and support ideas logically, coherently and cohesively using various techniques, to communicate clearly, concisely and accurately, and in appropriate tone and style. Through a range of learning activities involving reading, discussion, writing and making oral presentations, students also develop critical reading, critical thinking and problem solving skills as well as teamwork and leadership skills. For students who have this course as a program requirement.
LABU2051 - Business Case Analyses I (2)
Prerequisite: 	LANG 1003
Exclusion: 	LABU 2050
Description: 	For students who have this course as a program requirement. This course lays the foundation for students to engage in business case analyses by developing their critical reading and thinking skills, as well as their ability to present case analysis findings and recommendations in spoken and written forms.
LABU2060 - Effective Communication in Business (3)
Prerequisite: 	LANG 1003
Description: 	The course activates students' previously acquired English language skills into a useful managerial communication toolkit targeted toward specific business applications and strategies. Students will learn how to be an effective communicator in the global workplace. The course is designed and structured to address the learning needs of students in job-seeking and in their early careers. Students will have opportunities to learn and practice how to succeed in business writing, presentations, interviews, meetings, and collaborative assignments. The course also introduces students to strategies for handling the communication challenges which fresh graduates can expect in the global workplace. For students who have this course as a program requirement.
LANG1002A - English for University Studies I (3)
Attribute:	(E-Comm)
Exclusion: 	IELTS - Band 7 or above in overall and Band 6.5 or above in each part of the test or equivalent
Description: 	The course aims to develop students' proficiency in English as well as their academic literacy skills, so that they can cope with the linguistic demands of studying through the medium of English. The course aims to develop students' competence in academic writing and their ability to engage in oral interaction in social and academic contexts. For students under the four-year degree curriculum.
LANG1002I - English for University Studies I (3)
Attribute:	(E-Comm)
Exclusion: 	IELTS - Band 7 or above in overall and Band 6.5 or above in each part of the test or equivalent
Description: 	The course aims to develop students' proficiency in English as well as their academic literacy skills, so that they can cope with the linguistic demands of studying through the medium of English. The course aims to develop students' competence in academic writing and their ability to engage in oral interaction in social and academic contexts. For students under the four-year degree curriculum.
LANG1002S - English for University Studies I (3)
Attribute:	(E-Comm)
Exclusion: 	IELTS - Band 7 or above in overall and Band 6.5 or above in each part of the test or equivalent
Description: 	The course aims to develop students' proficiency in English as well as their academic literacy skills, so that they can cope with the linguistic demands of studying through the medium of English. The course aims to develop students' competence in academic writing and their ability to engage in oral interaction in social and academic contexts. For students under the four-year degree curriculum.
LANG1113C - Effective Chinese Communication (3)
Attribute:	(C-Comm)[CA]
Prerequisite: 	Level 3 in HKDSE Chinese
Exclusion: 	Level 4 or above in HKDSE Chinese, LANG 1114, LANG 1115, LANG 1116, LANG 1117, LANG 1118, LANG 1120, LANG 1121, LANG 1122, LANG 1123, LANG 1124, LANG 1125, LANG 1126, LANG 1127
Description: 	This course seeks to enhance the market competitiveness of HKUST graduates by making them effective users of spoken Putonghua and Standard Written Chinese in meeting communicative needs in academic, social and professional contexts. The course materials and activities help students acquire fluency and accuracy in the use of Chinese by engaging them in authentic communication tasks based on real-life situations and needs. Students' mastery of Putonghua phonology and Chinese syntax and lexis will also be enhanced through in-class teaching and outside class practice.
LANG1113I - Effective Chinese Communication (3)
Attribute:	(C-Comm)
Prerequisite: 	Level 3 in HKDSE Chinese
Exclusion: 	Level 4 or above in HKDSE Chinese, LANG 1114, LANG 1115, LANG 1116, LANG 1117, LANG 1118, LANG 1120, LANG 1121, LANG 1122, LANG 1123, LANG 1124, LANG 1125, LANG 1126, LANG 1127
Description: 	This course seeks to enhance the market competitiveness of HKUST graduates by making them effective users of spoken Putonghua and Standard Written Chinese in meeting communicative needs in academic, social and professional contexts. The course materials and activities help students acquire fluency and accuracy in the use of Chinese by engaging them in authentic communication tasks based on real-life situations and needs. Students' mastery of Putonghua phonology and Chinese syntax and lexis will also be enhanced through in-class teaching and outside class practice.
LANG1113P - Effective Chinese Communication (3)
Attribute:	(C-Comm)[PU]
Prerequisite: 	Level 3 in HKDSE Chinese
Exclusion: 	Level 4 or above in HKDSE Chinese, LANG 1114, LANG 1115, LANG 1116, LANG 1117, LANG 1118, LANG 1120, LANG 1121, LANG 1122, LANG 1123, LANG 1124, LANG 1125, LANG 1126, LANG 1127
Description: 	This course seeks to enhance the market competitiveness of HKUST graduates by making them effective users of spoken Putonghua and Standard Written Chinese in meeting communicative needs in academic, social and professional contexts. The course materials and activities help students acquire fluency and accuracy in the use of Chinese by engaging them in authentic communication tasks based on real-life situations and needs. Students' mastery of Putonghua phonology and Chinese syntax and lexis will also be enhanced through in-class teaching and outside class practice.
LANG1117C - Advanced Chinese Communication (3)
Attribute:	(C-Comm)
Prerequisite: 	Level 4 or above in HKDSE Chinese
Exclusion: 	LANG 1113, LANG 1114, LANG 1115, LANG 1116, LANG 1118, LANG 1120, LANG 1121, LANG 1122, LANG 1123, LANG 1124, LANG 1125, LANG 1126, LANG 1127
Description: 	This course seeks to advance the Putonghua speaking and Chinese writing abilities of local Hong Kong students who have attained a reasonably high standard in Chinese language on leaving secondary schools. The course materials and learning tasks help students to engage in rigorous intellectual analysis of academic and socio-economic issues and formulate coherent arguments for Putonghua speaking and Chinese writing in demanding situations such as participation in public fora and writing critical essays for publication in the media.
LANG1117P - Advanced Chinese Communication (3)
Attribute:	(C-Comm)
Prerequisite: 	Level 4 or above in HKDSE Chinese
Exclusion: 	LANG 1113, LANG 1114, LANG 1115, LANG 1116, LANG 1118, LANG 1120, LANG 1121, LANG 1122, LANG 1123, LANG 1124, LANG 1125, LANG 1126, LANG 1127
Description: 	This course seeks to advance the Putonghua speaking and Chinese writing abilities of local Hong Kong students who have attained a reasonably high standard in Chinese language on leaving secondary schools. The course materials and learning tasks help students to engage in rigorous intellectual analysis of academic and socio-economic issues and formulate coherent arguments for Putonghua speaking and Chinese writing in demanding situations such as participation in public fora and writing critical essays for publication in the media.
LANG1118 - Enhanced Chinese Communication (3)
Attribute:	(C-Comm)
Exclusion: 	Level 3 in HKDSE Chinese, LANG 1113, LANG 1114, LANG 1115, LANG 1116, LANG 1117, LANG 1120, LANG 1121, LANG 1122, LANG 1123, LANG 1124, LANG 1125, LANG 1126, LANG 1127
Description: 	This course seeks to enhance the Putonghua speaking and Chinese writing abilities of students who have typically undergone schooling in a Chinese language community. Learning tasks and activities on this course further challenges students to aim at very high levels in terms of precision of expression in writing and expressiveness and persuasiveness in speaking. The learning experience will also sharpen the students' awareness of style and tone and context of situation.
LANG1120 - Chinese for Non-Chinese Language Background Students I (3)
Attribute:	(C-Comm)
Exclusion: 	HKDSE/HKALE/HKCEE/JEE Chinese, LANG 1110 (prior to 2013-14), LANG 1111 (prior to 2013-14), LANG 1112 (prior to 2016-17), LANG 1113, LANG 1114, LANG 1115, LANG 1116, LANG 1117, LANG 1118
Description: 	Introduction to Chinese language and culture; basic understanding of Putonghua phonology and Chinese syntax; basic communicative competence in Chinese; recognition of high‐frequency Chinese characters. The course is restricted to students with non‐Chinese language backgrounds. Instructors’ approval is required for students with Chinese backgrounds who are from international schools of Hong Kong, China Mainland and other Asian countries, also for overseas students with either Mandarin or Cantonese language backgrounds.
LANG1121 - Chinese for Non-Chinese Language Background Students II (3)
Attribute:	(C-Comm)
Prerequisite: 	LANG 1120
Exclusion: 	HKDSE/HKALE/HKCEE/JEE Chinese, LANG 1110 (prior to 2013-14), LANG 1111 (prior to 2013-14), LANG 1112 (prior to 2016-17), LANG 1113, LANG 1114, LANG 1115, LANG 1116, LANG 1117, LANG 1118
Description: 	This course builds on the groundwork laid in LANG 1120, and takes students to a higher level of understanding of Putonghua phonology and a stronger communicative competence in using Chinese in daily and social situations. The course is restricted to students with non‐Chinese language backgrounds. Instructors’ approval is required for students with Chinese backgrounds who are from international schools of Hong Kong, China Mainland and other Asian countries, also for overseas students with either Mandarin or Cantonese language backgrounds. For students without prerequisite but with prior Chinese learning experience of approximately 50 hours may seek instructors’ approval to enroll in the course.
LANG1122 - Chinese for Non-Chinese Language Background Students III (3)
Attribute:	(C-Comm)
Prerequisite: 	LANG 1121
Exclusion: 	HKDSE/HKALE/HKCEE/JEE Chinese, LANG 1110 (prior to 2013-14), LANG 1111 (prior to 2013-14), LANG 1112 (prior to 2016-17), LANG 1113, LANG 1114, LANG 1115, LANG 1116, LANG 1117, LANG 1118
Description: 	This course builds on the groundwork laid in LANG 1120 and LANG 1121, and takes students to a higher level of understanding of spoken Chinese and a stronger communicative competence in using Chinese in daily, social and professional situations. The course is restricted to students with non-Chinese language backgrounds. Instructors’ approval is required for students with Chinese backgrounds who are from international schools of Hong Kong, China Mainland and other Asian countries, also for overseas students with either Mandarin or Cantonese language backgrounds. For students without prerequisite but with prior Chinese learning experience of approximately 100 hours may seek instructors’ approval to enroll in the course.
LANG1123 - Chinese for Non-Chinese Language Background Students IV (3)
Attribute:	(C-Comm)
Prerequisite: 	LANG 1122
Exclusion: 	HKDSE/HKALE/HKCEE/JEE Chinese, LANG 1110 (prior to 2013-14), LANG 1111 (prior to 2013-14), LANG 1112 (prior to 2016-17), LANG 1113, LANG 1114, LANG 1115, LANG 1116, LANG 1117, LANG 1118
Description: 	This course builds on the groundwork laid in LANG 1120, LANG 1121 and LANG 1122, and takes students to an intermediate level of understanding of spoken Chinese and a stronger communicative competence in using Chinese in social, professional and business situations.  The course is restricted to students with non-Chinese language backgrounds. Instructors’ approval is required for students with Chinese backgrounds who are from international schools of Hong Kong, China Mainland and other Asian countries, also for overseas students with either Mandarin or Cantonese language backgrounds. For students without prerequisite but with prior Chinese learning experience of approximately 150 hours may seek instructors’ approval to enroll in the course.
LANG1124 - Chinese for Non-Chinese Language Background Students V (3)
Attribute:	(C-Comm)
Prerequisite: 	LANG 1123
Exclusion: 	HKDSE/HKALE/HKCEE/JEE Chinese, LANG 1110 (prior to 2013-14), LANG 1111 (prior to 2013-14), LANG 1112 (prior to 2016-17), LANG 1113, LANG 1114, LANG 1115, LANG 1116, LANG 1117, LANG 1118
Description: 	This course builds on the groundwork laid in LANG 1120, LANG 1121 and LANG 1122 and LANG 1123, and takes students to an intermediate-high level of understanding of spoken Chinese and a stronger communicative competence in using Chinese in social and professional situations. Restricted to students with non-Chinese language backgrounds only. Students without the prerequisite but with approximate 200 hours of prior Chinese learning experience or attained level 4 in the HSK Chinese Proficiency Test may seek instructor’s approval for enrollment in the course.
LANG1125 - Chinese for Non-Chinese Language Background Students VI (3)
Attribute:	(C-Comm)
Prerequisite: 	LANG 1124
Exclusion: 	HKDSE/HKALE/HKCEE/JEE Chinese, LANG 1110 (prior to 2013-14), LANG 1111 (prior to 2013-14), LANG 1112 (prior to 2016-17), LANG 1113, LANG 1114, LANG 1115, LANG 1116, LANG 1117, LANG 1118
Description: 	This course builds on the groundwork laid in LANG 1120, LANG 1121 and LANG 1122 and LANG 1123, and LANG 1124, and takes students to an intermediate-high level of understanding of spoken Chinese and a stronger communicative competence in using Chinese in social and professional situations. Restricted to students with non-Chinese language backgrounds only. Students without the prerequisite but with approximate 250 hours of prior Chinese learning experience or attained level 4/5 in the HSK Chinese Proficiency Test may seek instructor’s approval for enrollment in the course.
LANG1126 - Chinese for Non-Chinese Language Background Students VII (3)
Attribute:	(C-Comm)
Prerequisite: 	LANG 1125
Exclusion: 	HKDSE/HKALE/HKCEE/JEE Chinese, LANG 1110 (prior to 2013-14), LANG 1111 (prior to 2013-14), LANG 1112 (prior to 2016-17), LANG 1113, LANG 1114, LANG 1115, LANG 1116, LANG 1117, LANG 1118
Description: 	This course builds on the groundwork laid in LANG 1120, LANG 1121 and LANG 1122 and LANG 1123, LANG 1124 and LANG 1125, and takes students to a high level of understanding of spoken Chinese and a stronger communicative competence in using Chinese in social and professional situations. Restricted to students with non-Chinese language backgrounds only. Students without the prerequisite but with approximate 300 hours of prior Chinese learning experience or attained level 5 in the HSK Chinese Proficiency Test may seek instructor’s approval for enrollment in the course.
LANG1127 - Chinese for Non-Chinese Language Background Students VIII (3)
Attribute:	(C-Comm)
Prerequisite: 	LANG 1126
Exclusion: 	HKDSE/HKALE/HKCEE/JEE Chinese, LANG 1110 (prior to 2013-14), LANG 1111 (prior to 2013-14), LANG 1112 (prior to 2016-17), LANG 1113, LANG 1114, LANG 1115, LANG 1116, LANG 1117, LANG 1118
Description: 	This course builds on the groundwork laid in LANG 1120, LANG 1121 and LANG 1122 and LANG 1123, LANG 1124, LANG 1125 and LANG 1126, and takes students to a high level of understanding of spoken Chinese and a stronger communicative competence in using Chinese in social and professional situations. Restricted to students with non-Chinese language backgrounds only. Students without the prerequisite but with approximate 350 hours of prior Chinese learning experience or attained level 6 in the HSK Chinese Proficiency Test may seek instructor’s approval for enrollment in the course.
LANG1130 - Cantonese for Non-Chinese Language Background Students I (3)
Description: 	This course is restricted to students with non-Chinese language backgrounds who are beginners in the learning of Cantonese. It equips students with Cantonese communicative competence necessary for living and net-working in Hong Kong, thus facilitating their smooth integration into the local community. The learning activities involve developing students' listening and speaking skills in an attempt to build learners' confidence and fluency in using Cantonese for daily communication.
LANG1133 - Cantonese for Chinese Language Background Students I (3)
Description: 	This course is restricted to students with Chinese language backgrounds who are beginners in the learning of Cantonese. It equips students with Cantonese communicative competence necessary for living and net-working in Hong Kong, thus facilitating their smooth integration into the local community. The learning activities involve developing students' listening and speaking skills in an attempt to build learners' confidence and fluency in using Cantonese for daily communication.
LANG1210 - Japanese Language and Related Culture (3)
Description: 	This is a course for learners with no previous knowledge of Japanese. It aims to offer students a foundation in Japanese language and related Japanese culture with an emphasis on practical oral communication. By the end of the course, students will be able to communicate appropriately in Japanese on a variety of everyday topics.
LANG1310 - French: World Language and Culture (3)
Description: 	This is a course for learners with no previous knowledge of French. It aims to promote an international perspective by helping them acquire the basics of French. By the end of the course, students will be able to communicate appropriately in French on a variety of everyday topics, and have an overview of certain themes in French and Francophone culture which will enhance their knowledge of Europe and the world.
LANG1320 - German in the World of Science and Technology (3)
Description: 	This is a course for learners with no previous knowledge of German. It aims to offer students a foundation in German language and related German culture, with an emphasis on practical oral communication, and consideration of the impact of major German achievements in the world of Science and Technology. By the end of the course, students will be able to communicate appropriately in German on a variety of everyday topics.
LANG1330 - Spanish and the Other America (3)
Description: 	This is a course for learners with no previous knowledge of Spanish. It aims to offer students a foundation in Spanish language and related culture, with an emphasis on practical oral communication. It presents aspects of essential Spanish and Latin American cultures, the flamenco to the salsa, from the temples of the Incas to the architecture of Gaudi. By the end of the course, students will be able to communicate appropriately in Spanish on a variety of everyday topics.
LANG2010 - English for Science I (3)
Prerequisite: 	LANG 1001 (prior to 2013-14) OR LANG 1003
Description: 	An English course for students of the School of Science. The course introduces students to the language and discourse of science and develops their competence in speaking and writing about scientific topics.
LANG2010H - English for Science I (3)
Prerequisite: 	LANG 1001 (prior to 2013-14) OR LANG 1003
Description: 	An English course for students of the School of Science. The course introduces students to the language and discourse of science and develops their competence in speaking and writing about scientific topics.
LANG2030 - Technical Communication I (3)
Prerequisite: 	LANG 1001 (prior to 2013-14) OR LANG 1003
Exclusion: 	LANG 3049 (prior to 2013-14)
Description: 	The course provides students with a broad introduction to English within the discipline of engineering. A central aim of the course is to encourage students to analyze critically the wider social implications of engineering products and processes, through the careful examination of texts (and other media) beyond their own specific engineering field and to communicate effectively by delivering oral presentations and writing reports on topics relevant to all engineers.
LANG2030H - Technical Communication I (3)
Prerequisite: 	LANG 1001 (prior to 2013-14) OR LANG 1003
Exclusion: 	LANG 3049 (prior to 2013-14)
Description: 	The course provides students with a broad introduction to English within the discipline of engineering. A central aim of the course is to encourage students to analyze critically the wider social implications of engineering products and processes, through the careful examination of texts (and other media) beyond their own specific engineering field and to communicate effectively by delivering oral presentations and writing reports on topics relevant to all engineers.
LANG2082 - Communication for Environmental Management and Technology I (2)
Prerequisite: 	LANG 1003
Description: 	This course aims to develop students' competence in academic and discipline-related English, with particular reference to environmental issues such as climate change, energy, biodiversity and pollution. Students will produce a piece of extended writing on an environmental topic and give oral presentations. For EVMT students under the four-year degree only.
LANG2170 - Chinese Communication Skills for Humanities & Social Science Studies (3)
Description: 	Restricted to students on the Global China Studies program. The course enables students to achieve thorough comprehension of texts written in Chinese, and prepares them for writing academic papers such as project reports and dissertations, with special attention paid to the demands on students from various Humanities and Social Science disciplines. Students must be able to read and write Chinese.
LANG3010 - English for Mathematics and Economics (3)
Prerequisite: 	LANG 2010
Description: 	A one-term, major-specific language course for all Mathematics & Economics students undertaking a final year Capstone Project. The course focuses on developing students' ability to use effective and appropriate organizational structures, vocabulary, language and style in Mathematics & Economics Capstone Project reports and presentations.
LANG3011 - English for Mathematics (3)
Prerequisite: 	LANG 2010
Description: 	A one-term, major-specific language course for all Mathematics students undertaking a final year Capstone Project. The course focuses on developing students' ability to use effective and appropriate organizational structures, vocabulary, language and style in Mathematics Capstone Project reports and presentations.
LANG3013 - Laboratory Report Writing for Physics Students (1)
Prerequisite: 	LANG 2010
Corequisite: 	PHYS 3152 OR PHYS 3153
Description: 	This course focuses on developing Physics students' ability to produce effective laboratory reports with appropriate organizational structures, vocabulary, language and style. For PHYS students only.
LANG3014 - Laboratory Report Writing for Life Science Students (1)
Prerequisite: 	LANG 1003
Description: 	This course focuses on developing Life Science students' ability to produce effective laboratory reports with appropriate organizational structures, vocabulary, language and style. For LIFS students only.
LANG3016 - Laboratory Report Writing for Environmental Science Students (1)
Prerequisite: 	LANG 2010
Corequisite: 	ENVS 3001
Description: 	This course focuses on developing Environmental Science students' ability to produce effective laboratory reports with appropriate organizational structures, vocabulary, language and style. For ENVS students only.
LANG3070 - English Communication for Humanities and Social Science Studies II (3)
Prerequisite: 	LANG 2070
Description: 	Restricted to students on programs offered by the School of Humanities and Social Science. The course builds on the critical reading and thinking skills students have developed, and prepares them for writing up long documents such as project reports and dissertations, with special attention paid to the demands on students from various Humanities and Social Science disciplines.
LANG3081 - Communication for Environmental Management and Technology III (2)
Prerequisite: 	LANG 2083
Description: 	This course aims to develop students' ability to use English effectively in professional contexts relevant to their careers. The course equips students with the appropriate English competence related to seeking employment (letters of application, resumes, etc.) and applying for further study (personal statements, etc.), as well as the skills required for job and admissions interviews. For EVMT students only.
LANG4012 - English for Chemistry Capstone Projects (2)
Corequisite: 	CHEM 4689 OR CHEM 4691 OR SCIE 3500 OR SCIE 4500
Description: 	The course focuses on developing Chemistry students' ability to use effective and appropriate organizational structures, vocabulary, language and style in Capstone Project reports and presentations.
LANG4013 - English for Physics Capstone Projects (2)
Corequisite: 	PHYS 4191 OR PHYS 4291 OR SCIE 3500 OR SCIE 4500
Description: 	The course focuses on developing Physics students' ability to use effective and appropriate organizational structures, vocabulary, language and style in Capstone Project reports and presentations.
LANG4014 - English for Life Science Capstone and Final Year Projects (2)
Prerequisite: 	LANG 3014
Description: 	The course focuses on developing Life Science students' ability to use effective and appropriate organizational structures, vocabulary, language and style in Capstone and Final Year Project reports and presentations.
LANG4030 - Technical Communication II for CSE & CPEG (3)
Prerequisite: 	LANG 2030
Corequisite: 	COMP 4981 OR COMP 4981H OR COMP 4988 OR COMP4989
Description: 	A one-term, major-specific language course for all CSE students and for all CPEG students undertaking a CSE Final Year Project. The course focuses on Final Year Project report writing and presentations, and communication in professional contexts relevant to CSE and CPEG.
LANG4031 - Technical Communication II for ECE & CPEG (3)
Prerequisite: 	LANG 2030
Corequisite: 	ELEC 4900 OR ELEC 4901 OR CPEG 4918 OR CPEG 4919
Description: 	A one-term, major-specific language course for all ECE students and for all CPEG students undertaking an ECE Final Year Project. The course focuses on Final Year Project report writing and presentations and communication in professional contexts relevant to ECE and CPEG.
LANG4032 - Technical Communication II for Industrial Engineering and Logistics Management (3)
Prerequisite: 	LANG 2030
Description: 	A one-term, major-specific language course for all students of the IELM Department. The course focuses on Final Year Project report writing and presentations and appropriate communication strategies and language use in professional contexts relevant to IELM. For IELM students in their third or fourth year of study only.
LANG4033 - Technical Communication II for Civil and Environmental Engineering (3)
Prerequisite: 	LANG 2030
Description: 	A one-term, major-specific language course for all students of the CIVL Department undertaking the Final Year Project and Capstone Project. The course focuses on Final Year Project report writing and presentations, and communication in professional contexts relevant to the CIVL Capstone Project. For CIVL and CIEV students in their third or fourth year of study only.
LANG4070 - Academic Writing in Context - Global China Studies (1)
Corequisite: 	SHSS 4991
Description: 	This is a course with a special delivery mode -- a combination of input sessions plus highly individualized assistance provided for students to address their specific writing needs, dictated by students' choices of topics in particular areas of Global China Studies. For GCS students only.
LANG5000 - Foundation in Listening & Speaking for Postgraduate Students (1)
Previous Code: 	LANG 500
Vector: 	[0-3-0:1]
Description: 	For students whose level of spoken English is lower than ELPA Level 4 (Speaking) when they enter the University. The course addresses the immediate linguistic needs of research postgraduate students for oral communication on campus using English. To complete the course, students are required to attain at least ELPA Level 4 (Speaking).
LANG5001 - Postgraduate English for Engineering Research Studies (1)
Corequisite: 	LANG 5000
Previous Code: 	LANG 501
Vector: 	[0-3-0:1]
Description: 	This course aims to help research students in engineering communicate their research effectively. It highlights the characteristics of academic discourse, and provides training in the production of research-type documents, including abstracts, journal papers and theses. The course also gives extensive practice in the presentation and seminar skills necessary for academic study. Students who fail to fulfill the spoken English language requirement of the University are advised to take LANG 5000 before enrolling for this course (for students admitted in 2009/10 and onwards). Graded P or F.
LANG5010 - Postgraduate English for Science Studies (1)
Corequisite: 	LANG 5000
Vector: 	[0-3-0:1]
Description: 	This course is intended to provide RPG students of SSCI with essential training in academic writing, with a focus on the language used in a number of science contexts. The course is compulsory for all RPG students of SSCI (for students admitted in 2012/13 and onwards). Students who fail to fulfill the English language requirement of the University are advised to take LANG 5000 before enrolling for this course (for students admitted in 2009/10 and onwards). Graded P or F.
LANG5030 - English Communication for Postgraduate Engineering Studies (1)
Previous Code: 	LANG 504
Vector: 	[0-3-0:1]
Description: 	This is an English for Academic Purposes course specially designed to assist postgraduate students in addressing linguistic challenges while pursuing a MSc in Engineering. It aims to enhance students’ academic presentation, discussion and writing skills. Students will also learn how to make use of existing electronic resources and various English dictionaries for effective and life-long learning. Graded P or F.
LANG5070 - Advanced Critical Writing for Academic Purposes (3)
Exclusion: 	LANG 5070H (prior to 2017-18)
Vector: 	[0-3-0:3]
Description: 	For students of the MSc in Global China Studies. The course aims to develop students' ability to produce written texts of a range of genres, appropriate to the academic context, and demonstrating adequate control of syntax, lexis and style.
LANG5072 - English Academic Writing on Chinese Culture (3)
Vector: 	[0-3-0:3]
Description: 	The course is intended to provide students with essential training in academic writing, with a focus on the language used in the context of Chinese culture. This is a compulsory foundation course for all students in the MA program in Chinese Culture.
LANG5080 - English Seminar and Presentation Skills (3)
Corequisite: 	LANG 5000
Vector: 	[0-3-0:3]
Description: 	This one-term course aims at enhancing the spoken English of research postgraduate students in Environmental Science, Policy and Management. The course focuses on developing appropriate English skills for participation in academic seminars and giving effective presentations of the students' own research. Students who fail to fulfill the spoken English language requirement of the University are advised to take LANG 5000 before enrolling for this course (for students admitted in 2009/10 and onward).
LANG5101 - Basic Chinese for International Management (3)
Vector: 	[0-6-0:3]
Description: 	This is a course restricted to students in the MSc in International Management program with no previous knowledge of Chinese. It aims to offer them a foundation in language so that they can communicate effectively and appropriately in spoken Putonghua and written Chinese in undemanding contexts. Basic mastery of the Chinese phonological and syntactic systems by students is also expected.
LANG5330 - Basic Spanish for International Management (3)
Vector: 	[0-6-0:3]
Description: 	This is a course restricted to students in the MSc in International Management program with no previous knowledge of Spanish. It aims to offer them a foundation in the language so that they can communicate appropriately in Spanish on a variety of relevant topics, and  integrate more comfortably into a study environment in which knowledge of a European language other than English is assumed.
LIFS1010 - Appreciation of Biological Sciences (3)
Attribute:	(S&T)
Exclusion: 	LIFS 1901, LIFS 1902, Level 3 or above in HKDSE 1/2x Biology OR in HKDSE 1x Biology, a passing grade in HKCEE Biology OR HKAL Biology
Description: 	This course introduces students to the fundamental concepts and principles of biological sciences, including chemical basis of life, cell structure and function, genetics and molecular biology, evolution, origin of life, diversity of life forms and their influence on human, structure and life processes in human, and ecology and environment. The inter-relationships between human, environment and society in daily life will be focused.
LIFS1030 - Environmental Science (3)
Attribute:	(S&T)(SSC-S&T)
Description: 	This course introduces students to the general concepts of environment, natural resources, and sustainable development. The topics include pressing global, regional and local environmental changes; life-supporting systems of our planet; biodiversity and its conservation; atmosphere, water resources, and their pollutions; solid and hazardous waste management; environmental health and sustainable development. Throughout the course, students will gain a sufficient background and a better understanding of the root-causes of the upfront environmental issues. They will also become more aware of their role, as citizens, in environmental protection and sustainable development.
LIFS1901 - General Biology I (3)
Exclusion: 	Level 3 or above in HKDSE 1x Biology, a passing grade in AL/AS Biology
Description: 	This course targets science students not having taken HKDSE 1x Biology or AL/AS Biology. It provides students with a general overview of fundamental biology: basic characteristics of life (the chemistry of life, cells), vital life processes (respiration, photosynthesis, genetics), essential concepts of evolution and ecology, and so on.
LIFS1902 - General Biology II (3)
Prerequisite: 	LIFS 1901 OR level 3 or above in HKDSE 1x Biology OR a passing grade in AL/AS Biology
Description: 	This course targets science students who have acquired basic knowledge in fundamental biology through HKDSE 1x Biology, AL/AS Biology or LIFS 1901. It functions as a bridging course to prepare the students for further study in life science. Its focus is on human biology, biotechnology and human impacts on the environment. Current examples will be used as well to relate the knowledge to real life issues. Students without the prerequisites but have completed biology course or program at equivalent level may seek instructor’s approval for enrollment.
LIFS1903 - Laboratory for General Biology I (1)
Corequisite: 	LIFS 1901
Exclusion: 	Level 3 or above in HKDSE 1x Biology, a passing grade in AL/AS Biology
Description: 	This is a practical course accompanied by the lecture course LIFS 1901. It provides students with some basic concepts and some hands-on experience in biological investigation within the areas covered by LIFS 1901. The emphasis is on the understanding and application of the scientific principles underlying the experimental designs and procedures.
LIFS1930 - Nature of Life Sciences (3)
Exclusion: 	LIFS 2030 (prior to 2014-15)
Description: 	This is an innovative blended-learning course that comprises both independent e-learning and face-to-face tutorial components. The course covers general and up-to-date topics such as conservation biology and animal forms and functions in the field of Biology, metabolism and cell signaling in Biochemistry, and recombinant DNA, animal and plant biotechnology and bioethics in Biotechnology.
LIFS2010 - Modern Approaches to Biochemical and Cell Biological Research (3)
Prerequisite: 	LIFS 1902
Description: 	Our current understanding of biochemical reactions and internal organization of a cell was progressively enriched by technological and conceptual breakthroughs in the 20th century. This course will use personal and scientific stories of six prominent scientists to highlight research areas that are still being actively pursued today. Topics to include are DNA and protein biochemistry, physical and chemical methods for biological research, and the use of model organisms.
LIFS2011 - A Practicum on Wetland Conservation (3)
Previous Code: 	LIFS 1011
Description: 	This one-year course engages students in practical training and enriches their knowledge and skills in interpretive services under ecotourism, identification of wetland species, and nature photography. The students will also have a chance to contribute to the society through environmental education. At the end of the course, students should gain hands-on experience in environmental conservation and improve their skills in communication, problem solving, team work, and time management. For LIFS and ENVS students only. Approval of the course coordinator is needed for students to enroll in this course. Graded PP, P or F.
LIFS2060 - Biodiversity (3)
Description: 	Diversity of life; taxonomy and phylogeny; different kingdoms of living organisms; structure and function; evolution and the generation of biodiversity.
LIFS2070 - Introduction to Biotechnology (3)
Prerequisite: 	LIFS 1902
Exclusion: 	LIFS 1070 (prior to 2016-17)
Description: 	Advancement in science has enabled scientists to modify biological systems for specific purposes. Many of these technologies have been used to improve our daily life and this area of study is commonly referred to as biotechnology. This course is designed to introduce some of the major subjects in this field including the history of biotechnology, ethics in genetic modification and use of animals in experimental studies, molecular foundation of biotechnology, animal biotechnology, plant and agricultural biotechnology, and health-care applications. You will learn how different aspects of biotechnology affect our daily life and have impact on the society.
LIFS2210 - Biochemistry I (3)
Prerequisite: 	LIFS 1901 OR LIFS 1902
Description: 	Major classes of biochemical compounds; primary, secondary, tertiary and quaternary structures of macromolecules; enzyme kinetics and mechanisms; biosynthesis of DNA and RNA; transfer RNA and protein synthesis.
LIFS2720 - Biochemistry Laboratory (2)
Corequisite: 	(for BCB and BISC students) LANG 3014 AND LIFS 2820; (for others) LIFS 2820
Description: 	Investigation of the properties of enzymes, lipids, carbohydrates and nucleic acids by physicochemical methods and specific assays; purification and quantitation of biochemical compounds by various biochemical techniques.
LIFS2820 - Biochemical Laboratory Techniques (1)
Corequisite: 	LIFS 2720
Description: 	Principles of biochemical techniques including spectrophotometry, column chromatography, electrophoresis, metabolite assay, enzyme assay, nucleic acid isolation and protein isolation.
LIFS3010 - Molecular and Cellular Biology I (3)
Prerequisite: 	LIFS 2210 and LIFS 2220
Description: 	Replication and roles of nucleic acids in cellular and viral systems; genome organization, vector-host systems, expression and regulation of genes; catalytic RNA, genetic code evolution, RNA modification and processing, and anti-sense systems.
LIFS3110 - Biotechnological Application of Recombinant DNA Techniques (3)
Prerequisite: 	LIFS 2040 AND LIFS 2210
Corequisite: 	(for BIOT, BIBU and BTGBM students) LANG 3014
Exclusion: 	LIFS 3120
Description: 	Practical and theoretical consideration of recombinant DNA techniques, including plasmid construction, PCR, mutagenesis, transformation, sequencing, and bioinformatic analysis. The use of recombinant DNA for protein expression.
LIFS3130 - Marine Biology (3)
Description: 	Survey of the major marine living organisms; their habitat and community structures; trophic interactions and the marine ecosystem.
LIFS3140 - General Genetics (4)
Prerequisite: 	LIFS 2040 OR LIFS 2210
Description: 	Principles and mechanisms of heredity and variation; genetic analysis in pro-and eukaryotic organisms.
LIFS3160 - Ecology (3)
Description: 	Basic principles and patterns of ecology; population growth; community interaction; ecosystem; ecosphere.
LIFS3330 - Marine Biology Laboratory (3)
Corequisite: 	LIFS 3130
Description: 	Both laboratory and field investigations will provide the opportunity to apply and adapt the experimental methods developed here to specific groups of marine organisms, diversified marine habitats, and practical issues in marine/environmental science. Tutorial sessions and field trips will be used to enhance student's understanding of the practical work and the theories covered in the lectures.
LIFS3510 - Junior Research Project I (2)
Prerequisite: 	LIFS 2040 and LIFS 2240
Description: 	The objective of the course is to increase awareness of preparation in research and learn how to synthesize a research proposal. Together with the supervisor each student will identify a research question, do a literature review, familiarize themselves theoretically with technical aspects of the project and write a short proposal. Approval of a faculty supervisor is required for students to enroll in the course. Graded P or F.
LIFS3520 - Junior Research Project II (2)
Prerequisite: 	LIFS 3510 OR SCIE 3500
Description: 	The aim of the course is for students to acquire hands-on laboratory experience in conducting a short research project and producing a formal written report. Each student will conduct the bench work for the proposal developed in the prerequisite course LIFS 3510 and hence under the same faculty supervisor as LIFS 3510. Due to the short duration, emphasis is on appreciation of the research process rather than results obtained. Approval of a faculty supervisor is required for students to enroll in the course. Graded P or F.
LIFS4090 - Developmental Biology (3)
Prerequisite: 	LIFS 2040
Description: 	Processes of cellular and tissue differentiation, early and late embryonic development spanning from molecular, cellular, organ to organismal levels; reproduction, fertilization, gastrulation, neurulation, axis formation, body patterning, cellular communication, short and long range signaling, sex determination, aging, environmental influence and evolutionary significance of different regulatory mechanisms.
LIFS4150 - Plant Biotechnology (3)
Prerequisite: 	LIFS 2040
Description: 	Current status and future potential of Biotechnology, with emphasis on the fundamentals of plant molecular biology and biotechnology.  Using examples of marketable products from food industry, Traditional Chinese Medicine (TCM) and agricultural fields.  The role of basic research in the development and production biotechnology products will be described.
LIFS4200 - Concepts and Issues in Contemporary Biotechnology (3)
Prerequisite: 	CENG 1600 OR LIFS 2040
Description: 	This course will survey the methods and applications of biotechnology, in the aspect related to animals, microbes, agriculture, human health and environment. The consequences of developments in this area will be examined, with emphasis on the aroused great public interest and the increasing demand for the informed debate. For BIOT students only.
LIFS4370 - Human Genetics and Personalized Medicine (3)
Prerequisite: 	LIFS 2210 OR LIFS 3140
Description: 	Many variations in the human population such as hair thickness, tolerance to milk in adults, high blood cholesterol and susceptibility to certain types of cancer can be determined by genetic factors. This course will cover the principles and up to date technologies for the discovery and analysis of human genetic variation. The application of basic scientific knowledge in a clinical setting will be discussed.
LIFS4630 - Advanced Topics in Biotechnology (3)
Prerequisite: 	LIFS 2040
Description: 	Principles and roles of various disciplines in biotechnology, including manipulation of various cell types, gene expression, immunochemistry, protein engineering, downstream processing, cell and enzyme immobilization, and fermentation; case studies in the development and applications of biotechnology.
LIFS4820 - Entrepreneurship in Biotechnology (3)
Description: 	Students will be guided to understand the complexities of biotechnology entrepreneurship with focus on convergence of scientific, technological, regulatory and commercial factors. The course will take a case study approach by interaction with guest speakers who have experience in starting and managing biotechnology companies. Site visits to local company with specialty product development will also be arranged. For BIOT students in their fourth year of study and students with instructor’s consent only.
LIFS4910A - Independent Study (1)
Description: 	The course will cover review topics restricted to life sciences. Enrolled students will conduct research project or literature review exercise on a mutually agreed topic under the supervision of a faculty member. For third year LIFS students and visiting interns only. Approval of the course instructor is needed for students to enroll in this course. Graded P or F.
LIFS4910C - Independent Study (3)
Description: 	The course will cover review topics restricted to life sciences. Enrolled students will conduct research project or literature review exercise on a mutually agreed topic under the supervision of a faculty member. For third year LIFS students and visiting interns only. Approval of the course instructor is needed for students to enroll in this course. Graded P or F.
LIFS4950 - Neurochemistry (3)
Prerequisite: 	LIFS 2040
Description: 	Introduction to the molecular understanding of brain function, building upon the basis of biochemistry and biology.  Four specific themes are covered: (i) structural neurochemistry and neural membranes; (ii) synapses, transmitters and receptors; (iii) cellular and (iv) medical and behavioral neurochemistry.
LIFS4960 - Biological Science Capstone Project (3)
Corequisite: 	LANG 4014
Description: 	Under the supervision of a faculty member, students will undertake a project, which may involve investigation on topics in an area of Biological Science. The project can be delivered through the format of literature review, research, or practical study. Students are required to submit a written report that documents the project work and learning experiences. For BISC students only. Approval of the course supervisor is needed for students to enroll in this course.
LIFS4961 - Biochemistry and Cell Biology Capstone Project (3)
Corequisite: 	LANG 4014
Description: 	Under the supervision of a faculty member, students will undertake a project, which may involve investigation on topics in the discipline of Biochemistry and Cell Biology. The project can be delivered through the format of literature review, research, or practical study. Students are required to submit a written report that documents the project work and learning experiences. For BCB students only. Approval of the course supervisor is needed for enrollment in the course.
LIFS4963 - Biotechnology Capstone Project (3)
Corequisite: 	LANG 4014
Description: 	Under the supervision of a faculty member, students will undertake a project, which may involve investigation on topics relevant to biotechnology industry and business. The project can be delivered through the format of literature review, research, or practical study. Students are required to submit a written report that documents the project work and learning experiences. For BIOT students only. Approval of the course supervisor is needed for enrollment in the course.
LIFS4970 - Biological Science Project Research I (3)
Description: 	Project research in one of the Life Science research laboratories under the supervision of a faculty member; report. Students who select to register in LIFS 4970 must also register in LIFS 4980. Approval of the course instructor is needed for students to enroll in this course.
LIFS4971 - Biochemistry and Cell Biology Project Research I (3)
Description: 	A research project conducted under faculty supervision. Course to include background research, design of experiments and analysis of data. Approval by a faculty supervisor is required to enroll in the course.
LIFS4973 - Biotechnology Project Research I (3)
Prerequisite: 	LIFS 3110
Description: 	Students will undertake a research project of their choice in an area of biotechnology under faculty supervision: design of experiments, analysis of data, submission of a written report. Approval of the course instructor is needed for students to enroll in this course. For BIOT students only.
LIFS4981 - Biochemistry and Cell Biology Project Research II (4)
Prerequisite: 	LIFS 4971 OR SCIE 4500
Corequisite: 	LANG 4014
Description: 	Continuation of research project started in LIFS 4971 and to be conducted under faculty supervisor. To include design of experiments, analysis of data and to be completed with poster presentation and written report.
LIFS4983 - Biotechnology Project Research II (4)
Prerequisite: 	LIFS 4973 OR SCIE 4500
Corequisite: 	LANG 4015
Description: 	Continuation of LIFS 4973. Students will undertake a research project of their choice in an area of biotechnology under faculty supervision: design of experiments, analysis of data, submission of a written report and poster presentation of research results. Approval of the course instructor is needed for students to enroll in this course. For BIOT students only.
LIFS5070 - Workshops in Biosciences (3)
Exclusion: 	NANO 5070 (prior to 2016-17)
Previous Code: 	BISC 507
Vector: 	[2-0-3:3]
Description: 	Laboratory exercises, including recombinant DNA technology, protein purification, microscopy, tissue culture and other technologies currently in use.
LIFS5240 - Molecular and Developmental Neurobiology (3)
Previous Code: 	BISC 524
Vector: 	[3-0-0:3]
Description: 	Principles underlying the structure and function of the nervous system, integrating molecular, cellular systems, and computational approaches. Topics include chemical neurotransmission, sensory processes, control of movement, neuroendocrinology, neuronal plasticity in development and learning.
LIFS5710 - Cellular Regulation (3)
Exclusion: 	LIFS 6270 (prior to 2014-15)
Previous Code: 	BISC 571
Vector: 	[3-0-0:3]
Description: 	Molecular basis of cellular regulation. Cellular signal transduction cascades.
LIFS6111G - Life Science Postgraduate Student Seminar (1)
Exclusion: 	ENVS 6011
Vector: 	[1 credit]
Description: 	Advanced seminar series presented by postgraduate students on their research topics in biological sciences offered in Fall/Spring Terms. This course may be repeated for credit. Graded PP, P or F.
LIFS6112A - Current Topics in Neuroscience (2)
Vector: 	[2-0-0:2]
Description: 	This course will expose postgraduate students to selected current topics in Neuroscience. This course may be repeated for credits. Graded P or F.
LIFS6113A - Current Topics in Biochemistry and Biophysics (2)
Vector: 	[2-0-0:2]
Description: 	This course will expose postgraduate students to selected current topics in Biochemistry and Biophysics. This course may be repeated for credits. Graded P or F.
LIFS6114A - Current Topics in Biotechnology and Traditional Chinese Medicine (2)
Vector: 	[2-0-0:2]
Description: 	This course will expose postgraduate students to selected current topics in Biotechnology and Traditional Chinese Medicine. This course may be repeated for credits. Graded P or F.
LIFS6170 - Special Topics in Molecular, Cell and Developmental Biology (4)
Previous Code: 	BISC 617
Vector: 	[2-2-0:4]
Description: 	Recent advances in molecular, cell and developmental biology will be presented and discussed in lectures and tutorials.
LIFS6410S - Seminar Enrichment Course (1)
Vector: 	[1 credit]
Description: 	Study on selected current topics in life science through attending seminars in LIFS seminar series. Students can repeat the course for credits. Graded PP, P or F.
LIFS6420A - Project Research (1)
Vector: 	[0-0-0:1]
Description: 	Project research in one of the life science research laboratories under the supervision of a faculty member. Graded P or F. (for Visiting Internship Postgraduate student)
LIFS6770 - Professional Development in Science (Life Science) (2)
Vector: 	[0-2-0:2]
Description: 	This two-credit course aims at providing research postgraduate students basic training in ethics, teaching skills, research management, career development, and related professional skills. This course lasts for one year, and is composed of two parts, each consisting of a number of mini-workshops. Part 1 of the course is coordinated by the School; and Part 2 consists of some department-specific workshops which are coordinated by the department. Graded PP, P or F.
LIFS6990 - MPhil Thesis Research (0)
Previous Code: 	BICH 699, BIOL 699
Description: 	Master's thesis research supervised by a faculty member. A successful defense of the thesis leads to the grade Pass. No course credit is assigned.
LIFS7990 - Doctoral Thesis Research (0)
Previous Code: 	BICH 799, BIOL 799
Description: 	Original and independent doctoral thesis research. A successful defense of the thesis leads to the grade Pass. No course credit is assigned.
MAED5021 - Mathematical Analysis and Its Applications I (3)
Vector: 	[3-0-0:3]
Description: 	This course is an introduction to analysis and its applications. Countable and uncountable sets, metrics, norms, open sets, closed sets, continuity, homeomorphisms, connectedness, complete metric spaces, totally bounded sets, fixed points, compact metric spaces, uniform continuity, category, the Baire Category Theorem, sequences of functions, pointwise and uniform convergence, the space of bounded functions.
MAED5121 - Algebra and Its Applications I (3)
Vector: 	[3-0-0:3]
Description: 	This course reviews the notion of groups, rings and homomorphisms and quotient constructions. Applications are then described for finite fields and number theory, and coding theory.
MAED5211 - Classical and Modern Geometry (3)
Vector: 	[3-0-0:3]
Description: 	This course is about important ideas in the development of geometry. Topics include logic and axiomatic system, projective geometry, Hilbert’s axioms, hyperbolic models, geometric transformations, hyperbolic trigonometry.
MAED5321 - Combinatorics (3)
Vector: 	[3-0-0:3]
Description: 	Topics in combinatorics including counting combinations and counting permutations, generating functions, and enumerative combinatorics. Inclusion-exclusion principle, Polya’s theory of counting, graph theory and applications.
MAED5851 - Scientific Computation (3)
Vector: 	[3-0-0:3]
Description: 	This course introduces various case studies drawn from different areas of science to illustrate the use of computers as a problem-solving tool. Each integrates physical principles and mathematical models, as well as numerical techniques and computer implementations, into a coherent perspective.
MAFS5010 - Stochastic Calculus (3)
Previous Code: 	MAFS 501
Vector: 	[3-0-0:3]
Description: 	Random walk models.  Filtration. Martingales.  Brownian motions.  Diffusion processes.  Forward and backward Kolmogorov equations.  Ito's calculus.  Stochastic differential equations.  Stochastic optimal control problems in finance.
MAFS5030 - Quantitative Modeling of Derivatives Securities (3)
Exclusion: 	MATH 5510
Previous Code: 	MAFS 503
Vector: 	[3-0-0:3]
Description: 	Forward, futures contracts and options. Static and dynamical replication. Arbitrage pricing. Binomial option model. Brownian motion and Ito's calculus. Black-Scholes-Merton model. Risk neutral pricing and martingale pricing methodology. General stochastic asset-price dynamics. Monte Carlo methods. Exotic options and American options.
MAFS5110 - Advanced Data Analysis with Statistical Programming (3)
Previous Code: 	MAFS 511
Vector: 	[3-0-0:3]
Description: 	Data analysis and implementation of statistical tools in a statistical program, like SAS, R, or Minitab.  Topics: reading and describing data, categorical data and longitudinal data, correlation and regression, nonparametric comparisons, ANOVA, multiple regression, multivariate data analysis.
MAFS5140 - Statistical Methods in Quantitative Finance (3)
Vector: 	[3-0-0:3]
Description: 	This course provides an introduction to statistical models used in financial data analysis. Students learn about various basic and advanced regression models, and techniques of data analysis. These statistical methods are applied in quantitative finance, including portfolio theory, asset pricing models and risk management.
MAFS5240 - Software Development with C++ for Quantitative Finance (3)
Previous Code: 	MAFS 524
Vector: 	[3-0-0:3]
Description: 	This course introduces C++ with applications in derivative pricing.  Contents include abstract data types; object creation, initialization, and toolkit for large-scale component programming; reusable components for path-dependent options under the Monte Carlo framework.
MAFS6010L - China Financial Markets (3)
Vector: 	[3-0-0:3]
Description: 	The financial reforms in China has offered vast opportunities for companies (whether companies from China or foreign companies seeking to do business in China) to tap the onshore and offshore markets for financing, investment and risk management in order to minimize their financing cost, increases their investment returns or hedge their financial exposure. The course aims to equip students with the knowledge and understanding of China onshore and offshore markets, products and regulations. It also introduces students to the perspectives of various market players, their considerations and how these considerations impact various opportunities for capital raising, investment and FX hedging. Throughout the course, relevant current events and landmark deals in each area are examined and used to illustrate teaching points.
MAFS6010M - Financial Infrastructure - Theory and Applications (3)
Vector: 	[3-0-0:3]
Description: 	Financial infrastructure is broadly defined as the underlying foundation to support efficient intermediation in financial markets, including institutions, technologies, information, as well as regulations and rules. This course introduces the theoretical underpinnings of financial infrastructure and their practical implications in financial markets. It covers the following topics: Influences of economic factors on financial institutions provision, interest rate and term structure, and practical implications of regulations and accounting standards on credit assets and derivatives, etc.
MAFS6010N - Structured Products and Solutions (3)
Vector: 	[3-0-0:3]
Description: 	This course is designed to provide a comprehensive view and a solid training on financial engineering and structured solutions. The whole process of financial engineering will be introduced from payoff design / packaging / distribution to pricing / hedging / funding. The popular and representative structures across the asset classes (Equity, Funds, FX, Interest Rate, Credit and Commodities) will be presented with discussions on the investment rationale, modelling, pricing and hedging techniques. The customized index business based on factors, portfolio theory and other trading models are also introduced with up-to-date industry practices. Based on his rich experience in financial engineering with several top investment banks, the lecturer endeavors to bridge the market practice of quantitative finance and the theory of risk-neutral stochastic modelling.
MAFS6010O - Technical Trading Strategies (3)
Vector: 	[3-0-0:3]
Description: 	This course is mainly divided in two parts. The first part of the course covers general theory in portfolio selection. Selected important models will be covered and the focus will be both in theory and in practice. The second part of the course covers fundamental techniques in algorithmic trading. The integration with the existing portfolio selection techniques will be emphasized. Students taking this course are expected to have knowledge equivalent to MAFS 5010, MAFS 5020, MAFS 5030, and MAFS 5240. After this course, students are able to develop, implement, and monitor portfolio selection models with algorithmic trading strategies as components. Students taking this course should expect to finish hands-on projects involving computer programming.
MAFS6010P - Distributed Ledger Technology and Financial Applications (3)
Vector: 	[3-0-0:3]
Description: 	This course provides an introduction to the technology of distributed ledger or shared ledger, which is essentially an asset database that can be shared across a network of multiple sites, countries or institutions and achieves secure and valid distributed consensus. A typical design is the blockchain system. Various financial applications, including bitcoin and other cryptocurrencies, are reviewed.
MAFS6100A - Independent Project (3)
Vector: 	[3 credits]
Description: 	Completion of an independent project under the supervisor of a faculty in financial mathematics or statistics. Scope may include (i) identifying a non-reference problem and proposing the methods of solution, (ii) acquiring a specific research skill.
MAFS6100B - Independent Project (3)
Vector: 	[3 credits]
Description: 	Completion of an independent project under the supervisor of a faculty in financial mathematics or statistics.  Scope may include (i) identifying a non-reference problem and proposing the methods of solution, (ii) acquiring a specific research skill.
MAFS6100C - Independent Project (3)
Vector: 	[3 credits]
Description: 	Completion of an independent project under the supervisor of a faculty in financial mathematics or statistics.  Scope may include (i) identifying a non-reference problem and proposing the methods of solution, (ii) acquiring a specific research skill.
MAFS6100E - Independent Project (3)
Vector: 	[3 credits]
Description: 	Completion of an independent project under the supervisor of a faculty in financial mathematics or statistics.  Scope may include (i) identifying a non-reference problem and proposing the methods of solution, (ii) acquiring a specific research skill.
MARK2120 - Marketing Management (3)
Description: 	Introduction to marketing from the perspective of the decision-maker; controllable variables (product, price, promotion and distribution), uncontrollable variables (competition, law, society, technology, and economy), consumer behavior and marketing research.
MARK3220 - Marketing Research (4)
Prerequisite: 	MARK 2120
Description: 	Basic research tools and procedures used in marketing research, and strategic uses of marketing research information in managerial decision making.
MARK3420 - Consumer Behavior (4)
Prerequisite: 	MARK 2120
Description: 	Psychological concepts such as perception, learning and motivation, sociological concepts such as reference groups, family and culture and theories of purchase decision processes underlying consumer buying behavior.
MARK3430 - Global Marketing (4)
Prerequisite: 	MARK 2120
Description: 	Understanding the formulation of international/multinational marketing strategy; factors influencing international trade, assessment of market potential, threats and opportunities in the international market environment, global marketing activities.
MARK3470 - Services Marketing (4)
Prerequisite: 	MARK 2120
Exclusion: 	ISOM 3740
Description: 	The development of marketing strategy for a variety of service businesses including: the traditional marketing mix (4 P's) and the management of the service encounter, i.e., the interface between the service firm and the consumer.
MARK3510 - Business to Business Marketing (4)
Prerequisite: 	MARK 2120
Description: 	The fundamental character of business markets and the decision-making nature of organizational customers; different approaches to business marketing, as typified in the relationships between buyers and sellers, and built around the concept of value; current trends changing the face of business-to-business marketing; critical analysis and problem-solving with respect to business market management.
MARK3520 - Competitive Positioning (4)
Prerequisite: 	MARK 2120
Corequisite: 	MARK 3220 AND MARK 3420
Description: 	Analysis of the environment and competitive market space; value analysis, creation, and development of value proposition; strategic options for the creation of a sustainable competitive advantage; attack, counter-attack, and defensive marketing strategies; direct-competitive marketing simulation used as a medium for exposure to the competitive nature of the marketing environment.
MARK4290D - Customer Acquisition and Retention (4)
Prerequisite: 	MARK 2120
Description: 	Marketing is about customers. Products come and go, but if you have a customer, you have a business. So how do businesses attract customers? How do they keep them? How do they extract maximum value from the customer relationship? This course focuses on the new marketing tools and techniques—targeted marketing, databases, data mining and modeling, CRM, testing and measurement, and integrated marketing communications—that businesses use to attract the most productive new prospects, convert them to buyers, and gain their loyalty over the long term. This kind of marketing is targeted, measurable and ROI-driven. With these approaches, marketing can be fully accountable to shareholders and stakeholders. Strategies covered in this course include: data capture and data modeling, segmentation by customer value and behavior, buying process analysis, direct response communications, customer contact management, customer experience marketing, and marketing metrics and testing. This course introduces the business, decision-making, strategic, tactical and operational skills essential to managing the customer base as an asset.
MARK5120 - Marketing Strategy and Policy (2)
Exclusion: 	IMBA 5050
Previous Code: 	MARK 512
Vector: 	[2-0-0:2]
Description: 	Strategic marketing objectives and implementation of strategies through pricing, distribution channels, promotion and new-product decisions.  This is a core course for MBA.
MARK5220 - The Art of War and Eastern Wisdom in Business Competition (1)
Previous Code: 	MARK 691L, MARK 6900E
Vector: 	[1-0-0:1]
Description: 	This course aims to explore and integrate the ancient Eastern wisdom into modern Western management science and apply to modern business competition. To achieve this goal, this course will use Sun Tzu's "The Art of War" as a vehicle to introduce the foundation of Eastern wisdom (Confucianism, Taoism, Buddhism) to management executives. Sun Tzu's "The Art of War " has proved to be a classic work on strategy, applicable to both military and business situation. This course is to crystallize some concepts and ideas put forth in "The Art of War" into a few business strategic principles and an innovative framework of 4Stop so that these can be more easily understood and applied.
MARK5420 - Behavioral Decision Theory (3)
Previous Code: 	MARK 6900H
Vector: 	[3-0-0:3]
Description: 	This course is designed to familiarize students with a wide variety of issues related to consumer judgment and decision making. In addition to providing students with basic knowledge on behavioral decision theory, this course will provide rigorous training to students to generate their own research ideas that lead to projects that are doable and worth doing. The readings will be from Consumer Behavior/Marketing as well as the basic disciplines of Economics and Psychology.
MARK6510G - Current Topics in Consumer Research (2)
Prerequisite: 	MARK 6500 (prior to 2012-13)
Vector: 	[2-0-0:2]
Description: 	Advanced seminar covering current research and theory in consumer behavior and marketing. Topics will vary with the term, but may include areas related to consumer judgment and decision processes, attitude formation and change, reactions to advertising, consumer information procession, affective, motivational and cognitive determinants of consumer behavior, and cultural and individual differences in consumer behavior. May be repeated for credit.  Graded P or F.
MARK6900Q - B2B Marketing (2)
Vector: 	[2-0-0:2]
Description: 	This course introduces concepts, tools and technologies applicable to managers in industrial products, consulting services, institutional investing, technology products, business services and other categories where the customer is a business, versus a consumer.   To sell successfully to business buyers, you need particularly to understand what’s uniquely B2B in the areas of market segmentation, buying behavior, pricing and distribution strategies, demand generation, and customer relationship management.
MARK6900R - Customer Acquisition & Retention (2)
Vector: 	[2-0-0:2]
Description: 	This course focuses on the marketing tools and techniques—targeted marketing, databases, data mining and modeling, CRM, testing and measurement, and integrated marketing communications—that businesses use to attract the most productive new prospects, convert them to buyers, and gain their loyalty over the long term.  This kind of marketing is targeted, measurable and ROI-driven.  With these approaches, marketing can be fully accountable to shareholders and  stakeholders.
MARK6900S - Data Science and Business Insights (2)
Vector: 	[2-0-0:2]
Description: 	The goal of this course is to impart a significant understanding of data science for business through introducing key concepts and new logics for business under data-rich environment, case studies relevant to data-driven solution. The course does not presume a sophisticated mathematical background nor programming skills.
MARK7990 - Doctoral Thesis Research (0)
Previous Code: 	MARK 799
Description: 	Original and independent doctoral thesis research.  A successful defense of the thesis leads to the grade Pass.  No course credit is assigned.
MATH1003 - Calculus and Linear Algebra (3)
Attribute:	(QR)
Exclusion: 	Level 5* or above in HKDSE Mathematics Extended Module M1 or M2; grade B or above in HKCEE Additional Mathematics, a passing grade in AS Mathematics and Statistics, AL/AS Applied Mathematics, or in AL Pure Mathematics; MATH 1013; MATH 1014; MATH 1018 (prior to 2013-14); MATH 1020; MATH 1023; MATH 1024
Description: 	This course teaches basic application techniques in single-variable calculus and linear algebra. Key topics include: systems of linear equations and matrices, functions and graphing, derivatives and optimization, integration and applications.
MATH1012 - Calculus IA (4)
Attribute:	(QR)
Exclusion: 	Level 3 or above in HKDSE Mathematics Extended Module M1 or M2; AL Pure Mathematics; AL Applied Mathematics; MATH 1003, MATH 1013, MATH 1014, MATH 1018 (prior to 2013-14), MATH 1020, MATH 1023, MATH 1024
Colist with: 	MATH 1013
Description: 	This is an introductory course in one-variable calculus, the first in the Calculus I and II sequence, designed for students that have not taken HKDSE Mathematics Extended Module M1 or M2. Topics include functions and their limits, continuity, derivatives and rules of differentiation, applications of derivatives, and basic integral calculus.
MATH1013 - Calculus IB (3)
Attribute:	(QR)
Prerequisite: 	Level 3 or above in HKDSE Mathematics Extended Module M1/M2
Exclusion: 	AL Pure Mathematics; AL Applied Mathematics; MATH 1003, MATH 1012, MATH 1014, MATH 1018 (prior to 2013-14), MATH 1020, MATH 1023, MATH 1024
Colist with: 	MATH 1012
Description: 	This is an introductory course in one-variable calculus, the first in the Calculus I and II sequence, designed for students that have taken HKDSE Mathematics Extended Module M1/M2. Topics include functions and their limits, continuity, derivatives and rules of differentiation, applications of derivatives, and basic integral calculus.
MATH1014 - Calculus II (3)
Prerequisite: 	MATH 1012 OR MATH 1013 OR MATH 1023 OR grade A- or above in MATH 1003
Exclusion: 	AL Pure Mathematics; AL Applied Mathematics; MATH 1018 (prior to 2013-14), MATH 1020, MATH 1024
Description: 	This is an introductory course in one-variable calculus, the second in the MATH 1013 – MATH 1014 sequence. Topics include applications of definite integral, improper integrals, vectors, curves and parametric equations, modeling with differential equations, solving simple differential equations, infinite sequences and series, power series and Taylor series.
MATH1023 - Honors Calculus I (3)
Attribute:	(QR)
Prerequisite: 	Level 5 or above in HKDSE Mathematics Extended Module M2
Exclusion: 	AL Pure Mathematics; AL Applied Mathematics; MATH 1003, MATH 1012, MATH 1013, MATH 1014, MATH 1018 (prior to 2013-14), MATH 1020
Description: 	This is the first in the sequence MATH 1023 – MATH 1024 of honors courses in one-variable calculus, with particular emphasis on rigorous mathematical reasoning. Topics include inequalities, functions and their graphs, vectors, limit and continuity, extreme value theorem, intermediate value theorem derivatives and differentiation rules, mean value theorem, l'Hôpital's rule, Taylor expansion, and applications of derivatives.
MATH2011 - Introduction to Multivariable Calculus (3)
Prerequisite: 	A passing grade in AL Pure Mathematics / AL Applied Mathematics; OR MATH 1014; OR MATH 1018 (prior to 2013-14); OR MATH 1020; OR MATH 1024
Exclusion: 	MATH 2010 (prior to 2013-14), MATH 2021 (prior to 2013-14), MATH 2023
Description: 	Differentiation in several variables, with applications in approximation, maximum and minimum and geometry. Integration in several variables, vector analysis.
MATH2023 - Multivariable Calculus (4)
Prerequisite: 	A passing grade in AL Pure Mathematics / AL Applied Mathematics; OR MATH 1014 OR MATH 1018 (prior to 2013-14) OR MATH 1020 OR MATH 1024
Exclusion: 	MATH 2010 (prior to 2013-14), MATH 2011, MATH 2021 (prior to 2013-14)
Description: 	Sequences, series, gradients, chain rule. Extrema, Lagrange multipliers, line integrals, multiple integrals. Green's theorem, Stroke's theorem, divergence theorem, change of variables.
MATH2111 - Matrix Algebra and Applications (3)
Prerequisite: 	A passing grade in AL Pure Mathematics / AL Applied Mathematics; OR MATH 1014 OR MATH 1018 (prior to 2013-14) OR MATH 1020 OR MATH 1024
Exclusion: 	MATH 2121, MATH 2131, MATH 2350
Description: 	Systems of linear equations; vector spaces; linear transformations; matrix representation of linear transformations; linear operators, eigenvalues and eigenvectors; similarity invariants and canonical forms.
MATH2121 - Linear Algebra (4)
Prerequisite: 	A passing grade in AL Pure Mathematics / AL Applied Mathematics; OR MATH 1014 OR MATH 1018 (prior to 2013-14) OR MATH 1020 OR MATH 1024
Exclusion: 	MATH 2111, MATH 2131, MATH 2350
Description: 	Vector space, matrices and system of linear equations, linear mappings and matrix forms, inner product, orthogonality, eigenvalues and eigenvectors, symmetric matrix.
MATH2131 - Honors in Linear and Abstract Algebra I (4)
Prerequisite: 	Grade A in AL Pure Mathematics; or grade A- or above in MATH 1014/MATH 1018 (prior to 2013-14)/MATH 1020/MATH 1024
Exclusion: 	MATH 2111, MATH 2121, MATH 2350
Description: 	The MATH 2131 and 3131  is a sequence of rigorous introduction to linear algebra and abstract algebra. Vector spaces over the fields of real numbers and complex numbers, linear transformations, geometry, groups, bases, abstract fields, rings, change of bases, spectral theorems.
MATH2350 - Applied Linear Algebra and Differential Equations (3)
Prerequisite: 	A passing grade in AL Pure Mathematics / AL Applied Mathematics OR MATH 1014 OR MATH 1018 (prior to 2013-14) OR MATH 1020 OR MATH 1024
Exclusion: 	MATH 2111, MATH 2121, MATH 2131, MATH 2351, MATH 2352
Description: 	This course provides a concise introduction to linear algebra and differential equations, with exposure to the use of numerical computing software like MATLAB. Topics include systems of linear equations, matrix algebra and determinants, language of vector spaces and inner product spaces, eigenvalue and eigenvector, first order ODEs, linear second order ODEs and oscillations, and homogeneous system of first order ODEs with constant coefficients.
MATH2351 - Introduction to Differential Equations (3)
Prerequisite: 	A passing grade in AL Pure Mathematics / AL Applied Mathematics; OR MATH 1014 OR MATH 1018 (prior to 2013-14) OR MATH 1020 OR MATH 1024
Exclusion: 	MATH 2350, MATH 2352
Description: 	First order equations and applications, second order equations, Laplace transform method, series solutions, system of linear equations, nonlinear equations and linear stability analysis, introduction to partial differentiation and partial differential equations, separation of variables, and Fourier series.
MATH2411 - Applied Statistics (4)
Prerequisite: 	A passing grade in AL Pure Mathematics / AL Applied Mathematics OR MATH 1014 OR MATH 1018 (prior to 2013-14) OR MATH 1020 OR  MATH 1024
Exclusion: 	IELM 2510, ISOM 2500, LIFS 3150
Description: 	A systematic introduction to statistical inference, including the necessary probabilistic background, point and interval estimation, hypothesis testing.
MATH2421 - Probability (4)
Prerequisite: 	IELM 2510 OR ISOM 2500 OR LIFS 3150 OR MATH 2411
Corequisite: 	MATH 2010 (prior to 2013-14) OR MATH 2011 OR MATH 2021 (prior to 2013-14) OR MATH 2023
Exclusion: 	MATH 2431, ELEC 2600, ELEC 2600H, ISOM 3540
Description: 	Sample spaces, conditional probability, random variables, independence, discrete and continuous distributions, expectation, correlation, moment generating function, distributions of function of random variables, law of large numbers and limit theorems.
MATH2511 - Fundamentals of Actuarial Mathematics (3)
Prerequisite: 	MATH 1003 OR MATH 1014 OR MATH 1020 OR MATH 1024
Description: 	This course covers the fundamental concepts of actuarial financial mathematics and how these concepts are applied in calculating present and accumulated values for various streams of cash flows. The topics covered include interest rates, present value, annuities valuation, loan repayment, bond and portfolio yield, bond valuation, rate of return, yield curve, term structure of interest rates, duration and convexity of general cash flows and portfolios, immunization, stock valuation, capital budgeting, dynamic cash flow processes, and asset and liability management.
MATH3033 - Real Analysis (4)
Prerequisite: 	(MATH 2010 (prior to 2013-14) / MATH 2011 / MATH 2021 (prior to 2013-14) / MATH 2023) AND (MATH 2031 (prior to 2013-14) / MATH 2033 / MATH 2043) AND (MATH 2111 / MATH 2121 / MATH 2131 / MATH 2350)
Exclusion: 	MATH 3043
Description: 	Functions of several variables, implicit and inverse function theorem, uniform convergence measure and integral on the real line.
MATH3043 - Honors Real Analysis (4)
Prerequisite: 	Grade A- or above in MATH 2043
Exclusion: 	MATH 3033
Description: 	The MATH 2043 and 3043 is a rigorous sequence in analysis on the line and higher dimensional Euclidean spaces. Differentiation and integration in higher dimensions, implicit function and inverse function theorem, Stokes theorem, and Lebesgue measure.
MATH3121 - Abstract Algebra (3)
Prerequisite: 	MATH 2111/MATH 2121/MATH 2131/MATH 2350
Exclusion: 	MATH 3131
Description: 	Polynomials; Jordan canonical form, minimal polynomials, rational canonical form; equivalence relation; group, coset, group action; introduction to rings and fields.
MATH3312 - Numerical Analysis (3)
Prerequisite: 	(COMP 1002 (prior to 2013-14) / COMP 1004 (prior to 2013-14) / COMP 1021 / COMP 1022P / COMP 1022Q) AND (MATH 2111 / MATH 2121 / MATH 2131 / MATH 2350) AND (MATH 2031 / MATH 2033 / MATH 2043)
Exclusion: 	MATH 3311, MECH 4740, PHYS 3142
Description: 	Basic numerical analysis, including stability of computation, linear systems, eigenvalues and eigenvectors, nonlinear equations, interpolation and approximation, numerical integration and solution of ordinary differential equations, optimization.
MATH3423 - Statistical Inference (3)
Prerequisite: 	MATH 2421 OR MATH 2431
Description: 	Sampling theory, order statistics, limiting distributions, point estimation, confidence intervals, hypothesis testing, non-parametric methods.
MATH4052 - Partial Differential Equations (3)
Prerequisite: 	MATH 2010 (prior to 2013-14)/MATH 2011/MATH 2021 (prior to 2013-14)/MATH 2023/MATH 3043 and MATH 2111/MATH 2121/MATH 2131/MATH 2350 and MATH 2350/MATH 2351/MATH 2352
Description: 	Derivatives of the Laplace equations, the wave equations and diffusion equation; Methods to solve equations: separation of variables, Fourier series and integrals and characteristics; maximum principles, Green's functions.
MATH4141 - Number Theory and Applications (3)
Prerequisite: 	MATH 2131
Corequisite: 	(for students without prerequisites) MATH 3121
Description: 	Prime numbers, unique factorization, modular arithmetic, quadratic number fields, finite fields, p-adic numbers, coding theory, computational complexity.
MATH4223 - Differential Geometry (3)
Prerequisite: 	MATH 2011/MATH 2021 (prior to 2013-14)/MATH 2023/MATH 3043 and MATH 2121/MATH 2131
Description: 	Curve theory; curvature and torsion, Frenet-Serret frame; surface theory: Weingarten map, first and second fundamental forms, curvatures, Gaussian map, ruled surface, minimal surface; instrinsic geometry: Theorema Egregium, Coddazi-Mainardi equations, parallel transport, geodesics, exponential map, Gauss-Bonnet theorem.
MATH4326 - Introduction to Fluid Dynamics (3)
Prerequisite: 	MATH 4052
Exclusion: 	CIVL 2510, CIVL 3520, MECH 2210
Description: 	Lagrangian and Eulerian methods for the flow description; derivation of the Euler and Navier-Stokes equations; sound wave and Mach number; 2D irrotational flow; elements of aerofoil theory; water wave dispersion relation; shallow water waves; ship wave pattern; dynamics of real fluid, stokes flow and boundary layer theory.
MATH4423 - Nonparametric Statistics (3)
Prerequisite: 	MATH 2411
Description: 	The sign test; Wilcoxon signed rank test; Wilcoxon rank-sum test; Kruskal-Wallis test; rank correlation; order statistics; robust estimates; Kolmogorov-Smirnov test; nonparametric curve estimation.
MATH4427 - Loss Models and Credibility Theory (3)
Prerequisite: 	(ELEC 2600 OR ISOM 3540 OR MATH 2421 OR MATH 2431) AND (MATH 2010 (prior to 2013-14) OR MATH 2011 OR MATH 2021 (prior to 2013-14) OR MATH 2023) AND MATH 2511
Description: 	This course covers the construction of casualty loss models and credibility theory. The topics discussed in this course include severity models, frequency models, aggregate models, coverage modifications, loss elimination ratios, effect of inflation on losses, risk measures, limit fluctuation credibility, Bayesian credibility models for discrete and continuous models, Buhlman and Buhlman-Straub credibility models, conjugate priors in Bayesian analysis, and empirical Bayesian methods in non-parametric and semi-parametric models.
MATH4511 - Quantitative Methods for Fixed Income Derivatives (3)
Prerequisite: 	(MATH 2010 (prior to 2013-14) / MATH 2011 / MATH 2021 (prior to 2013-14) / MATH 2023) AND (MATH 2111 / MATH 2121 /  MATH 2131 / MATH 2350) AND (IELM 2510 / ISOM 2500 / LIFS 3150 / MATH 2411) AND (FINA 2203 / FINA 2303)
Description: 	Bond, bond markets and interest-rate derivatives markets. Yields, forward rate and swap rates. Yield-based risk management and regression-based hedging. Mortgage mathematics. Binomial models for equity and fixed-income derivatives. Arbitrage pricing and risk-neutral valuation principle. Eurodollar futures. Lognormal models and Black formula for caps and swaptions.
MATH4513 - Life Contingencies Models and Insurance Risk (3)
Prerequisite: 	ELEC 2600 OR ISOM 3540 OR MATH 2421 OR MATH 2431
Description: 	The topics discussed in this course include survival models, life tables and selection, insurance benefits, annuities, premium calculation, and insurance policy values.
MATH4982Y - Independent Study: Further Topics in Game Theory (3)
Prerequisite: 	MATH 4321
Description: 	In this course, we shall study games of incomplete information. As a starting point, we first explore the equilibrium concepts (Bayesian Nash Equilibrium and Perfect Bayesian Nash equilibrium) adopted in this class of games and develop relevant theories. Next, we shall explore the application of incomplete information games including auction games, job market signaling games, capital financing etc.. To enroll this course, students are expected to have solid knowledge in game theory, basic probability theory and calculus. Students should seek instructor’s approval to take this course.
MATH4982Z - Independent Study: Mathematical Theory of Wave Propagation in Complex Media (1)
Prerequisite: 	MATH 2350 AND MATH 2023 AND MATH 2421
Description: 	This course aims to introduce basic mathematical theory and tools for the study of wave propagation and scattering in complex media. It will cover topics such as stochastic differential equation, random layer media, time reversal and imaging. Students would seek instructor’s approval to take this course.
MATH4991 - Capstone Project in Pure Mathematics (3)
Prerequisite: 	MATH 3121
Corequisite: 	LANG 3011
Exclusion: 	MATH 4992, MATH 4993, MATH 4994, MATH 4999
Description: 	This is a project-based course that provides students an opportunity to integrate and apply mathematical tools to analyze problems in pure mathematics. Specific topics will be chosen by the instructor. For MATH students in their fourth year of study only.
MATH4992 - Capstone Project in Applied Mathematics (3)
Prerequisite: 	MATH 3312
Corequisite: 	LANG 3011
Exclusion: 	MATH 4991, MATH 4993, MATH 4994, MATH 4999
Description: 	This is a project-based course that provides students an opportunity to integrate and apply mathematical tools to analyze problems in applied mathematics. Specific topics will be chosen by the instructor. For MATH students in their fourth year of study only.
MATH4993 - Capstone Project in Statistics (3)
Prerequisite: 	MATH 3424
Corequisite: 	LANG 3011
Exclusion: 	MATH 4991, MATH 4992, MATH 4994, MATH 4999
Description: 	This is a project-based course that provides students an opportunity to integrate and apply their statistical knowledge to analyzing data. Students may make use of the statistical package SAS to conduct their project. For MATH students in their fourth year of study only.
MATH4994 - Capstone Project in Mathematics and Economics (3)
Corequisite: 	LANG 3010 OR LABU 2040
Exclusion: 	MATH 4991, MATH 4992, MATH 4993, MATH 4999
Description: 	This is a project-based course that provides students an opportunity to integrate and apply mathematical tools to analyze problems in economics and social science. Specific topics will be chosen by the instructor. For MATH students in their fourth year of study only.
MATH4999 - Independent Capstone Project (3)
Corequisite: 	LANG 3010 OR LANG 3011
Exclusion: 	MATH 4991, MATH 4992, MATH 4993, MATH 4994
Description: 	A capstone project conducted under the supervision of a faculty member. A written report is required. Students need to individually seek a faculty mentor's consent prior to enrollment in this course.
MATH5030 - Complex Function Theory (3)
Previous Code: 	MATH 503
Vector: 	[3-0-0:3]
Description: 	Review of basic properties of analytic functions. Phragmen-Lindelof principle, normal family, Riemann mapping theorem. Weierstrass factorization theorem, Schwarz reflection principle, analytic continuation, harmonic function, entire function, Hadamard factorization theorem, Picard theorem.
MATH5111 - Advanced Algebra I (3)
Previous Code: 	MATH 511
Vector: 	[3-0-0:3]
Description: 	Advanced theory of groups, linear algebra, rings, modules, and fields, including Galois theory.
MATH5145 - Introduction to Lie Groups (3)
Prerequisite: 	MATH 5111 and MATH 5143
Previous Code: 	MATH 515
Vector: 	[3-0-0:3]
Description: 	This course is an introduction to the structure and representation theory of compact and noncompact reductive Lie groups.  Topics include general properties of Lie groups and Lie algebras, Peter-Weyl Theorems, representations of compact Lie groups, theorems of the highest weight, Harish-Chandra isomorphism, Weyl character formula, the structure theory of noncompact semisimple and reductive Lie groups, classification of simple real Lie algebras, induced representation and Frobenius reciprocity, classical branching theorems.
MATH5230 - Differential Topology (3)
Previous Code: 	MATH 523
Vector: 	[3-0-0:3]
Description: 	Manifolds, embedding and immersion, Sard's theorem, transversality, degree, vector fields, Euler number, Euler-Poincare theorem, Morse functions.
MATH5251 - Algebraic Geometry I (3)
Vector: 	[3-0-0:3]
Description: 	Projective spaces, algebraic curves, divisors, line bundles, algebraic varieties, coherent sheaves, schemes. Some commumative algebra and homological algebra such as notherian ring, regular ring, valuation ring, kahler differentials.
MATH5311 - Advanced Numerical Methods I (3)
Previous Code: 	MATH 531
Vector: 	[3-0-0:3]
Description: 	Numerical solution of differential equations, finite difference method, finite element methods, spectral methods and boundary integral methods.  Basic theory of convergence, stability and error estimates.
MATH5350 - Computational Fluid Dynamics for Inviscid Flows (3)
Previous Code: 	MATH 535
Vector: 	[3-0-0:3]
Description: 	Derivation of the Navier-Strokes equations; the Euler equations; Lagriangian vs. Eulerian methods of description; nonlinear hyperbolic conservation laws; characteristics and Riemann invariants; classification of discontinuity; weak solutions and entropy condition; Riemann problem; CFL condition; Godunov method; artificial dissipation; TVD methods; and random choice method.
MATH5351 - Mathematical Methods in Science and Engineering I (3)
Previous Code: 	MATH 551
Vector: 	[3-0-0:3]
Description: 	Perturbation Methods: Regular and singular perturbation.  Boundary layer analysis.  Calculus of variations, Hamiltonian theory.  Stability and bifurcation, Hydrodynamic stability.  Invariant variational problems, Noether theorem, Invariant PDEs, Self-similar solutions.
MATH5380 - Combinatorics (3)
Prerequisite: 	MATH 2343 or MATH 3343
Previous Code: 	MATH 538
Vector: 	[3-0-0:3]
Description: 	Enumerative Combinatorics: bijective counting, permutation statistics, generating functions, partially ordered sets, Mobius inversions, Polya theory.  Graph Theory: cycle space, bond space, spanning-tree formulas, matching theory, chromatic polynomials, network flows.  Matroid Theory: matroid axioms, representations, duality, lattice of flats, transversals.
MATH5411 - Advanced Probability Theory I (3)
Previous Code: 	MATH 541
Vector: 	[3-0-0:3]
Description: 	Probability spaces and random variables, distribution functions, expectations and moments, independence, convergence concepts, law of large numbers and random series.
MATH5431 - Advanced Mathematical Statistics I (3)
Previous Code: 	MATH 543
Vector: 	[3-0-0:3]
Description: 	Theory of statistical inference in estimation. Topics include: sufficiency, ancillary statistics, completeness, UMVU estimators, information inequality, efficiency, asymptotic maximum likelihood theory. Other topics may include Bayes estimation and conditional inference.
MATH5460 - Time Series Analysis (3)
Previous Code: 	MATH 546
Vector: 	[3-0-0:3]
Description: 	Basic idea of time series analysis in both the time and frequency domains. Topics include: autocorrelation, partial ACF, Box and Jerkins ARIMA modeling, spectrum and periodogram, order selection, diagnostic and forecasting. Real life examples will be used throughout the course.
MATH6380L - Mathematical Foundations of Imaging (3)
Vector: 	[3-0-0:3]
Description: 	This course aims to introduce the basic mathematical tools and techniques used in the field of imaging and medical imaging, which is becoming increasingly important nowadays. Topics covered: 1. the mathematical modelling of imaging modality; 2. inversion step where measurements are used to generate the imaging; 3. image quality analysis and processing. Emphasis is given to the image quality analysis such as resolution and artifacts and their relations to the mathematical modeling, sampling, inversion scheme and signal to noise level. Students are expected to have the basic background of multivariable calculus and linear algebra.
MATH6510B - Mathematical Methods for Interest Rate and Credit Risk Modeling (3)
Prerequisite: 	MAFS 5030 AND MAFS 5040
Vector: 	[3-0-0:3]
Description: 	This course consists of several topics, including x VA and wrong-way risk, credit risk modeling under the framework of market model, multiple-curve interest-rate models, dual-curve interest-rate models, the heat-kernel expansion method for solving diffusion equations for finance, and introduction to stochastic control for finance. These topics are either current to today's markets or have wide applications in finance. Students should seek approval from the instructor to take the course.
MATH6770 - Professional Development in Science (Mathematics) (2)
Vector: 	[0-2-0:2]
Description: 	This two-credit course aims at providing research postgraduate students basic training in ethics, teaching skills, research management, career development, and related professional skills. This course lasts for one year, and is composed of two parts, each consisting of a number of mini-workshops. Part 1 of the course is coordinated by the School; and Part 2 consists of some department-specific workshops which are coordinated by the department. Graded PP, P or F.
MATH6900A - Mathematics Seminar (1)
Previous Code: 	MATH 600A
Vector: 	[0-1-0:1]
Description: 	This course will expose our PG students to the current mathematical research and development and provide them with opportunities to make mathematical and social contacts with the speakers and with local and international mathematical
communities in general. Graded P or F.
MATH6900B - Mathematics Seminar (1)
Previous Code: 	MATH 600B
Vector: 	[0-1-0:1]
Description: 	This course will expose our PG students to the current mathematical research and development and provide them with opportunities to make mathematical and social contacts with the speakers and with local and international mathematical
communities in general. Graded P or F.
MATH6900C - Mathematics Seminar (1)
Previous Code: 	MATH 600C
Vector: 	[0-1-0:1]
Description: 	This course will expose our PG students to the current mathematical research and development and provide them with opportunities to make mathematical and social contacts with the speakers and with local and international mathematical
communities in general. Graded P or F.
MATH6900D - Mathematics Seminar (1)
Previous Code: 	MATH 600D
Vector: 	[0-1-0:1]
Description: 	This course will expose our PG students to the current mathematical research and development and provide them with opportunities to make mathematical and social contacts with the speakers and with local and international mathematical
communities in general. Graded P or F.
MATH6911A - Reading Course: Finite Element Methods (3)
Prerequisite: 	MATH 5311
Vector: 	[3-0-0:3]
Description: 	The course will focus on Sobolev Spaces, Interpolation Theory in Sobolev Spaces, PDEs and Weak Forms, Galerkin methods, Finite Element Spaces, Error Analysis of FEMs. Students should seek instructor's approval to take this course.
MATH6911B - Reading Course: Advanced Iterative Methods for Algebraic Solvers (3)
Prerequisite: 	MATH 5312
Vector: 	[3-0-0:3]
Description: 	The course will focus on Matrix Splitting, CG methods, preconditioning, multigrid methods, domain decomposition, subspace iteration. Students should seek instructor's approval to take this course.
MATH6911C - Reading Course: PDEs in Complex Geometry (2)
Prerequisite: 	MATH 4033
Vector: 	[2-0-0:2]
Description: 	This independent reading course reviews some masterpieces in complex geometry that heavily used PDE methods. Students will read important and seminal works in this area, including Yau's proof of the Calabi Conjecture, existence of Kahler-Einstein metrics, the Kahler-Ricci flow, etc. Students are expected to give regular presentations. Students should seek instructor's approval to take this course.
MATH6911D - Reading Course: Advanced Topics in Algebraic Coding Theory (6)
Vector: 	[6-0-0:6]
Description: 	The main purpose of the reading course is preparing the student to undertake research on some explicit problems in coding theory. This will be partly reading and partly research. There will be weekly meeting and some seminars every month. Students should seek instructor's approval to take this course.
MATH6911E - Reading Course: Number Theory and Automorphic Forms (3)
Prerequisite: 	MATH 5143
Vector: 	[3-0-0:3]
Description: 	This course will discuss automorphic forms and their applications in number theory. We will focus on trace formulas. Students should seek instructor's approval to take this course.
MATH6911Z - Reading Course: Introduction to Elasticity Theory (3)
Vector: 	[3-0-0:3]
Description: 	This reading course will give introduction to elasticity theory and discuss the recent advances in mathematical models of defects in solids. Students should seek instructor's approval to take this course.
MATH6990 - MPhil Thesis Research (0)
Previous Code: 	MATH 699
Description: 	Master's thesis research supervised by a faculty member.  A successful defense of the thesis leads to the grade Pass.  No course credit is assigned.
MATH7990 - Doctoral Thesis Research (0)
Previous Code: 	MATH 799
Description: 	Original and independent doctoral thesis research.  A successful defense of the thesis leads to the grade Pass.  No course credit is assigned.
MECH1902 - Energy Systems in a Sustainable World (3)
Attribute:	(S&T)(SA)
Description: 	Various fuels used by mankind, fossil and renewable sources; power generation technologies and the controversies; energy efficient technologies and the applications in buildings and consumable products; energy efficient manufacturing technologies; low energy infrastructure and impact to modern life style; myths behind sustainable energy systems and the debates; energy entrepreneurship, case studies and social impact.
MECH1906 - Mechanical Engineering for Modern Life (3)
Attribute:	(S&T)
Description: 	Mechanical Engineering covers the broadest range of engineering amongst all related disciplines. In addition to the production of modern products useful in daily life, it is also associated with power generation and distribution,as well as new materials development. These will be used to explain mechanical engineering principles and their usage in product design and manufacture. Contents include Engineering Materials, Solid Mechanics and Structural Design, Renewable Energy, Indoor Environmental Quality, Smart Green Building, Energy Design, Sensors and Instrumentation, Robots and Controls, together with MEMS and LED Fabrication. First year students are preferred.
MECH1907 - Introduction to Aerospace Engineering (3)
Description: 	Introduction to the field of Aerospace engineering, discussion of basic aerospace systems and disciplines, working vocabulary of the field. Basic concepts. Demonstration through examples. Wind tunnel visit.
MECH1990 - Industrial Training (0)
Description: 	A practical training course in an industrial simulated environment. For students of the Mechanical Engineering Department only. Graded P or F.
MECH2020 - Statics and Dynamics (3)
Prerequisite: 	(MATH 1012 OR MATH 1013 OR MATH 1020 OR MATH 1023) AND (PHYS 1111 OR PHYS 1112 OR PHYS 1312)
Exclusion: 	CIVL 2110
Description: 	Fundamental course on the analysis of the equilibrium and dynamic behavior of mechanical systems. Statics: equilibrium of particles and of rigid bodies; distributed forces; analysis of structures, including, trusses, frames, cables and beams. Dynamics: kinematics of particles; kinetics of particles, Newton's second law, energy, momenta, impact dynamics; systems of particles; kinematics of rigid bodies; kinetics of rigid bodies in two and three dimensions.
MECH2310 - Thermodynamics (3)
Prerequisite: 	MATH 1012 OR MATH 1013 OR MATH 1020 OR MATH 1023
Description: 	Fundamental concepts; pure substance; work and heat; control volume; Ideal and real gases. First and second laws of thermodynamics. Entropy. Elementary power and refrigeration cycles.
MECH3030 - Mechanisms of Machinery (3)
Prerequisite: 	MECH 2020
Description: 	Application of kinematics and dynamics in the analysis, design and synthesis of mechanisms. Type and dimensional design of linkages, cams and gears based on motion requirements and force transmission, in contrast to the strength requirements. Graphical, analytical and computer methods in analysis and design of mechanisms. Design considerations in mechanism synthesis.
MECH3300 - Energy Conversion (3)
Prerequisite: 	MECH 2310
Description: 	Thermodynamics of combustion, chemical equilibrium, refrigeration and mixtures of gases.  Analysis of power generation, propulsion systems.  Performance of modern steam plants, gas turbines, internal combustion engines and refrigeration plants.
MECH3310 - Heat Transfer (3)
Prerequisite: 	MECH 2210 AND MECH 2310
Description: 	Transient and steady heat conduction.  Natural and forced convection.  Radiative exchange.  Introduction to computational methods.
MECH3420 - Engineering Materials II (3)
Prerequisite: 	MECH 2410
Description: 	Structure, properties and applications of ceramics and polymers; introduction to composites; construction materials; corrosion and degradation of materials; materials selection and design considerations.
MECH3510 - CAD/CAM (3)
Description: 	Geometric modeling systems, data structures, NC technology, NC machining, project.
MECH3520 - Design and Manufacturing II (3)
Prerequisite: 	MECH 2520
Description: 	Engineering specification, selection of materials, design criteria. Methods of joining and assembly. Engineering components design and applications: shafts and bearing, gearing, pulleys and belts, brakes and clutches. Design for manufacturing.
MECH3610 - Control Principles (3)
Exclusion: 	ELEC 3200
Description: 	Introduction to system equations, block diagrams, signal flow graphs, state-space systems, transient response using convolution integral, root locus and frequency response methods. Design by root locus, frequency response and state space method. Nyquist stability test.
MECH3640 - Aerodynamics (3)
Prerequisite: 	CENG 2220 OR CIVL 2510 OR MECH 1907 OR MECH 2210
Previous Code: 	MECH 4610
Description: 	Irrotational flow, circulation, lift and drag, aerofoil, conformal mapping, lifting line theory, Elliptical wing, swept wing, delta wing, supersonic flow. For science and engineering students in their second year of study or above.
MECH3650 - Aircraft Structure (3)
Prerequisite: 	CIVL 2120 OR MECH 1907 OR MECH 2040
Previous Code: 	MECH 4620
Description: 	Elasticity, structural analysis, energy and matrix methods, fatigue, vibration, airworthiness and aeroelasticity. For science and engineering students in their second year of study or above.
MECH4000G - Introduction to Composite Materials (3)
Prerequisite: 	MECH 2040 AND MECH 2410
Description: 	This course introduces fundamentals of composite materials, which will cover the definitions of composites, their classifications and characteristics, the reinforcement mechanisms, the basic mechanics of composites and common applications in science and engineering, especially in aerospace engineering. One important objective of the course is to underlie the concepts of rule of mixtures and laws of solid mechanics, by which the composite materials can be designed with desirable characteristics for engineering applications. Also, it prepares students for the advanced study of composites such as mechanical and structural analysis, failure mechanisms and optimal structural design. Knowledge on MECH3020 Solid Mechanics II and MECH3420 Engineering Materials II is recommended.
MECH4000H - Advanced Aircraft Design (3)
Description: 	The topic of aircraft design has always been a key part of the curriculum in aerospace engineering education. With constant expansion of aerospace industry driven by economic development, universities are required to better equip the students with knowledge and skills in design. The essence of design activities is to apply a variety of methods in an integrated manner, in order to produce design solutions which meet a set of objectives and constraints from technical, commercial, and social perspectives. This also need to be achieved in a schedule demanded by the customer, and within the specified budget, in order to maintain competitiveness against products from competitors. In this course, a set of advanced topics will be provided which complement what students would typically learn during studies at the undergraduate level. Students will be exposed to (1) principles, workflows and methods in multidisciplinary aircraft design practice, (2) concepts of some advanced engineering optimization methods and strategies, (3) some case studies used in industry design office or joint university-industry effort in research activities. At the end of the course, students will be able to formulate a conceptual aircraft optimization problem, build a variety of simulation models of various fidelity, and apply multi-objective optimization methods to solving the complex simulation-based design optimization problems.
MECH4000I - Introduction to Nanosatellite Engineering (Experiential Course) (3)
Prerequisite: 	(MECH 3610 OR ELEC 3200) AND (ELEC 2420 OR PHYS 1112) AND (MATH 2011 OR MATH 2111 OR MATH 2351)
Description: 	This course will introduce the fundamental concepts of CubeSat – a class of nanosatellite with standardized unit size of 10x10x10 cm. As an experiential course, a number of labs have been prepared with a different focus on orbits dynamics, analysis of control and thermal subsystems. Every student should finish fundamental labs (~2 weeks each) individually, and organize a group, select and complete two advanced lab topics (~3 weeks each). The course shall offer students with both hands-on experience software simulation and hardware implementation. The topics in this course are introduced with mathematical derivations and case studies. After taking this course, we hope students will understand the fundamentals of satellite engineering and grasp the usage of common engineering design tools, such as MATLAB Aerospace blockset and CubeSat IMU hardware; and therefore gain the capability to attend astronautics related international competitions, such as GTOC in the near future.
MECH4360 - Introduction to Intelligent Building Systems (3)
Prerequisite: 	MECH 2310 and MECH 3610
Description: 	Introduction to intelligent building and building automation, communication, safety and security systems; modeling and control of noise, illumination, mechanical transportation, electrical, electronic, fire safety subsystems; system integration and optimization with the building envelope; code of practice in design, operational characteristics and performance specifications.
MECH4860 - Aeroelasticity (3)
Prerequisite: 	MECH 3640 AND MECH 3650
Description: 	This course will introduce you to the basic principles of aeroelasticity: the interaction between structural dynamics and unsteady aerodynamic flow over a structure. The main aeroelastic phenomena for aircraft design are explored with an emphasis on how they affect structural and aerodynamic performance. The topics covered include aeroelastic phenomena, structural and aerodynamic models for aeroelastic analysis, aeroelastic response to arbitrary forcing, state-space modelling, nonlinear aeroelasticity, aeroelastic control, and numerical tools for aeroelastic analysis.
MECH4900 - Final Year Design Project (6)
Description: 	A one-year project course offers practice of engineering design through a group design project chosen to integrate materials covered in the curriculum. Each student will be assigned a component of a large project which may be sponsored by industry. Credit load will be spread over the year.
MECH4950 - Co-op Program (3)
Description: 	This course is intended to provide final year UG students with practical hands-on training in the form of a co-op program in an engineering company located in Hong Kong or China. Students must obtain approval from the UG Coordinator before enrolling in the course.
MECH4980 - Final Year Aerospace Design Project (6)
Description: 	A one-year Design project offers practice of aircraft design for the modern aerospace industry. Students will gain an overview of how to manage a design team and will also gain skills in carrying out detailed design problems. The course will cover design requirements; conceptual design methodology developed and applied incorporating center of gravity, inertias, structural layout, materials, propulsion integration, stability and control, vehicle sizing, performance, and acquisition
costs; sources of information for aircraft design; configuration design: performance, weight and balance, propulsion; aerodynamic design: lift, drag and control; structural design: loads, materials; philosophies of design and analysis; system design: requirements and specification; system design procedures; systems integration. For AE students in their fourth year of study only. May be graded PP.
MECH5010 - Foundation of Solid Mechanics (3)
Exclusion: 	MESF 5010
Previous Code: 	MECH 501
Vector: 	[3-0-0:3]
Description: 	Continuum concept for deformation of solids; analysis of stress and strain; constitutive equations; solution of problems relevant to materials processing, fracture mechanics and structural analysis; energy methods and numerical solutions.
MECH5210 - Fluid Dynamics (3)
Exclusion: 	AESF 5210, MESF 5210
Previous Code: 	MECH 521
Vector: 	[3-0-0:3]
Description: 	Tensor notation, derivation of Navier-Stokes equations, vorticity transport, viscous flow, flow separation, boundary layer, flow instability, turbulent boundary layer, stratified flow, rotating flow.
MECH5540 - Precision Engineering (3)
Exclusion: 	MESF 5560
Previous Code: 	MECH 554, MECH 691S
Vector: 	[3-0-0:3]
Description: 	Principles of precision engineering, 3D tolerancing for precision design, flexure and nano-positioning, interferometry for precision measurement, dynamic control for precision machining of engineering materials, ductile machining for brittle materials, applications and industrial practices.
MECH5930 - Finite Element Methods (3)
Exclusion: 	AESF 5930, CIVL 5390, MESF 5930
Colist with: 	CIVL 5390
Previous Code: 	MECH 593
Vector: 	[3-0-0:3]
Description: 	Finite element formulation; variational principles for structural and continuum mechanics; numerical interpolation and integration; plane stress and plane strain analysis; plate bending and three dimensional solids; solution of large systems of algebraic equations.
MECH5961 - Acoustics and Aeroacoustics (3)
Prerequisite: 	MECH 3640
Previous Code: 	MECH 6910L
Vector: 	[3-0-0:3]
Description: 	The aims of this module are to acquaint students with the knowledge of acoustics and aerodynamically generated sound, its generation either through turbulent flow or unsteady aerodynamic force‐surface interaction, and numerical methods for accurate numerical prediction of aerodynamically generated noise as well as its propagation and far‐field characteristics. The wide applications of the subject are noise, environmental impact of noise and transport related noise.
MECH6090M - Seminar in Mechanical Engineering (0)
Vector: 	[1-0-0:0]
Description: 	Technical seminars in various disciplines of mechanical engineering; presentations are given by students, faculty, or guest speakers. Graded P or F.
MECH6770 - Professional Development in Mechanical Engineering (1)
Vector: 	[0-1-0:1]
Description: 	This one-credit course aims at providing research postgraduate students with basic training in teaching skills, research management, career development, and related professional skills. This course consists of a number of mini-workshops. Some department-specific workshops will be coordinated by Department of MECH. Graded PP, P or F.
MECH6910N - Aviation Economics (3)
Exclusion: 	AESF 6910A
Vector: 	[3-0-0:3]
Description: 	This module aims to provide the students with knowledge on the economic aspects in the aerospace industry and the aviation sector. The module starts with a review on the developments of aerospace section including products and technology. This is followed by market analysis and prediction methods, and introduction to technology readiness levels. Aircraft program development cost, aircraft unit price, airline operating cost, cost differentiations between low cost and major airlines, value-chain of aviation industry. Cost estimation relations, economic implications of environmental impact, engine program cost, and evaluation of new technology development on economics, design methods for economics. Some recent development in value driven design, supply chain management and optimization will also be discussed.
MECH6910O - Fundamentals of Electrochemical Energy Conversion (3)
Vector: 	[3-0-0:3]
Description: 	This course concerns the fundamentals of energy conversion devices based on electrochemistry. We will discuss the thermodynamics and kinetics of electrochemical reactions, the influence of mass transport, the mechanism of electrosorption, and techniques for their evaluation (cyclic voltammetry, electrochemical impedance, etc.). We will then apply the knowledge to electrochemical devices, e.g. batteries, fuel cells and sensors, to better understand the factors limiting their performance. The course aims to equip the students with basic knowledge and skills of electrochemistry for applied research, especially in the field of energy technologies.
MECH6910P - Structural Dynamics (3)
Vector: 	[3-0-0:3]
Description: 	In this course, we will place emphasis on the principles and solution techniques of vibration and structural dynamics problems in aerospace engineering, mechanical engineering, and civil engineering. Special features in this course include: an emphasis on mathematical modeling of structures; numerical techniques for computing natural frequencies and mode shapes; transient responses; complex frequency-response, response of single and multiple degree of freedom systems; Natural Modes of Vibration, Discrete/ Continuous System; damped and undamped systems. Also, Vibration and Damping of Composite structures will be discussed. And Smart Structures application using piezo ceramic, shape memory alloy, optical fiber sensors and other Smart Materials will be discussed.
MECH6950A - Independent Studies (3)
Vector: 	[3 credits]
Description: 	An independent research project carried out under the supervision of a faculty member. (Only one independent studies course may be used to satisfy the course requirements for any postgraduate program in the Department of Mechanical Engineering.)
MECH6950C - Independent Studies (1)
Previous Code: 	MECH 695C
Vector: 	[0-0-0:1]
Description: 	An independent research project carried out under the supervision of a faculty member. (Only one independent studies course may be used to satisfy the course requirements for any postgraduate program in the Department of Mechanical Engineering.)
MECH6990 - MPhil Thesis Research (0)
Previous Code: 	MECH 699
Description: 	Master's thesis research supervised by a faculty member.  A successful defense of the thesis leads to the grade Pass.  No course credit is assigned.
MECH7990 - Doctoral Thesis Research (0)
Previous Code: 	MECH 799
Description: 	Original and independent doctoral thesis research.  A successful defense of the thesis leads to the grade Pass.  No course credit is assigned.
MESF5010 - Foundation of Solid Mechanics (3)
Exclusion: 	MECH 5010
Previous Code: 	MESF 501
Vector: 	[3-0-0:3]
Description: 	Continuum concept for deformation of solids; analysis of stress and strain; constitutive equations; solution of problems relevant to materials processing, fracture mechanics and structural analysis; energy methods and numerical solutions.
MESF5210 - Fluid Dynamics (3)
Exclusion: 	AESF 5210, MECH 5210
Colist with: 	AESF 5210
Previous Code: 	MESF 521
Vector: 	[3-0-0:3]
Description: 	Basic concepts of fluid flows, derivation of governing equations, viscous flow, potential flow, boundary layer, flow instability, transition to turbulence, turbulent boundary layer.
MESF5370 - Composites and Nanocomposites (3)
Exclusion: 	AESF 5370
Colist with: 	AESF 5370
Previous Code: 	MESF 6910H
Vector: 	[3-0-0:3]
Description: 	This course is designed to provide fundamental understanding of fiber-reinforced composites (FRPs) and emerging nanocomposites technologies. The topics include constituent materials, microstructure-property relationships, fabrication and processing techniques, fundamental mechanics of stress transfer, lamination theory and failure mechanisms and fracture of FRPs in the first part. The topics in the second part include synthesis of nanoscale reinforcements, fabrication and processing techniques of nanocomposites; dispersion and functionalization of nanoreinforcements; interfacial adhesion; mechanical and functional properties of nanocomposites, and their design and applications.
MESF5430 - Thermodynamics and Kinetics of Materials (3)
Exclusion: 	MECH 5430
Previous Code: 	MESF 543
Vector: 	[3-0-0:3]
Description: 	An advanced treatment of the thermodynamics, kinetics and transport properties in solids, solutions, surfaces, and heterogeneous reactions.
MESF5560 - Precision Manufacturing Technologies (3)
Exclusion: 	MECH 5540
Previous Code: 	MESF 556, MESF 691B
Vector: 	[3-0-0:3]
Description: 	Principles of precision engineering; mathematical definitions and theoretical studies of 2D precision assemblies; micro- and nano- positioning for precision machining; nanometrology, data processing for precision measurement; dynamic control for precision machining of engineering materials, applications and industrial practices.
MESF6910D - Advanced Numerical Methods in Engineering (3)
Vector: 	[3-0-0:3]
Description: 	This is an advanced level course in numerical methods, targeted at graduate students of engineering majors. It will teach fundamental math and algorithms of numerical methods such as analysis of errors, roots of equations, linear and algebraic equation systems, optimizations, curve-fitting and approximation, numerical differentiation and integration, ordinary differential equations, and partial differential equations. In addition, the students will have tutorials in scientific programming tools such as MATLAB and Excel VBA and learn how to use them to implement their own numerical methods.
MESF6950C - Independent Project (6)
Previous Code: 	MESF 695C
Vector: 	[6 credits]
Description: 	An independent research project on Mechanical Engineering carried out under the supervision of a faculty member. May be graded PP.
MGCS5001 - Understanding China, 1700-2000: A Data-Analytic Approach (3)
Attribute:	
Vector: 	[C] Require Chinese reading
Description: 	[3-0-0:3] This seminar aims to summarize some of the new directions in Chinese history during the last two decades. The course adopts an analytic approach that distinguishes measurement, ‘objectivities,’ from ‘ subjectivities,’ which emphasize interpretation: cultural representation and categorization of values, construction of identity, and the relationship between individual actions and the transformation and transmission of such social, political, and cultural subjectivities.
MGCS5010 - Quantitative Methods in Social Science (3)
Exclusion: 	SOSC 4610, SOSC 5090, SSMA 5020
Colist with: 	SSMA 5020
Vector: 	[2-1-0:3]
Description: 	This course teaches basic concepts and skills required to conduct quantitative research in social science. Students will learn to design and conduct statistical analyses to test hypotheses. They will acquire experience in the use of statistical software such as STATA to carry out analysis of social data.
MGCS5033 - Accommodating the Provocative Others: Translation and Cultural Encounters between China and the West (3)
Vector: 	[3-0-0:3]
Description: 	The course will delve into concepts of translation and travel as complex literary and cultural practices, examining them against the backdrop of cross-cultural exchanges between China and its foreign "others" through the selection of literary texts and films. Some specific topics for discussion include how translations of Western literature impacted Chinese literature and culture and how Western canons exerted influence and were reinterpreted in China. Also on the agenda will be discussions of the translation and appropriation of Chinese culture in the Western context. Students will be guided to engage in critical thinking on the literary and cultural issues of (un)translatability and (in)communicability in the present age of globalization and cultural hybridity.
MGMT1110 - Introduction to Management (3)
Attribute:	(SA)
Description: 	This course provides students with a systematic approach to acquiring a solid foundation in the principles and current practices of management. The focus of the course is about the interaction between individuals (managers) and the organization. We will explore what managers do through discussion of the four fundamental functions of managers, namely planning, organizing, leading and controlling. Topics include: evolution of management theories, environmental influences on management, organizational culture, strategic management, organizational design, change management, organizational control and human resources management.
MGMT2010 - Business Ethics and the Individual (2)
Previous Code: 	SBMT 2010
Description: 	This course presents and exemplifies three major traditions of ethical thought in East and West moral philosophy - namely utilitarianism, principle-based ethics and virtue-based ethics. Employing guest speakers, lectures, cases, contemporary readings, role-plays, fieldwork, reflective student writing, and discussion groups, the course engages students in a serious consideration of their own ethical standards as applied to their present academic environment and their future careers. Students come to understand through this course that while an ethical dilemma may be viewed in various ways depending on one's guiding assumptions, a decision and course of action nevertheless must be chosen in harmony with one's own moral convictions. For Business students only.
MGMT2110 - Organizational Behavior (3)
Description: 	Human behavior and behavioral issues in organizations studied from the perspective of the individual and that of the organization.
MGMT2130 - Business Ethics and Social Responsibility (2)
Prerequisite: 	(for non-BIBU students) MGMT 2010
Description: 	Taking a discussion-based approach to examining ethical issues in a corporate context, this intermediate business ethics course will focus mainly on the ethical issues related to the interaction between business and society. Students will further develop their ethical knowledge, moral reasoning skills, and attitudes towards social responsibility by considering the overarching corporate implications of their decisions. This highly interactive course will draw upon relevant current issues to help students understand (and overcome) some of the real-world challenges that business executives confront.
MGMT3110 - Human Resources Management (4)
Prerequisite: 	MGMT 2110
Description: 	Manpower planning, job analysis and design, recruitment, performance appraisal, compensation, training and development, health and safety at work and discrimination.
MGMT3130 - Judgement and Decision Making in Organizations (4)
Prerequisite: 	MGMT 2110
Description: 	This course is about how people make decisions, with special emphasis on decision making in an organizational context. It attempts to provide an understanding of employee and manager decision making at two levels - the individual and the group.
MGMT3140 - Negotiation (4)
Description: 	Theories and processes of negotiation; negotiation strategies; contextual factors in negotiation; other issues in negotiation.
MGMT4210 - Corporate Strategy (3)
Prerequisite: 	MGMT 2110
Description: 	Major techniques and approaches to the development and implementation of corporate strategies. Underlying concepts; analytical techniques; internal and external competitor analysis and evaluation of strategic options.
MGMT4220 - Entrepreneurship and Small Business Studies (4)
Description: 	This is an interactive course that introduces knowledge about the creation and management of new business ventures. Attention is also given to key issues in corporate entrepreneurship, social entrepreneurship, and family businesses.
MGMT4260 - Simulating Executive Decision-making (Strategy and Crisis) in a Real-life Organization (3)
Description: 	This is a tri-model learning course that simulates everyday, practical decision-making by shadowing a real-life business. Students will spend time in the location of the company, reflecting on the work of the executives and the decisions they make related to strategy, operations and crisis. They will undertake a strategy project and prepare a report and presentation to the company executives at the end of the project. Students will also take part in a crisis simulation exercises set on real-life crisis that the executives have experienced. Student enrollment in this course requires the approval of the course instructor.
MGMT5110 - Managerial Communication (2)
Previous Code: 	MGMT 511, SBMT 511
Vector: 	[2-0-0:2]
Description: 	Communication skill ranks at the top of contributors to job effectiveness, satisfaction and success.  Managerial communication gives students an opportunity to improve students' ability to communicate efficiently and effectively as a manager and to develop those critical communication capabilities that students will need as a business leader.
MGMT5230 - Management of Organizations (2)
Exclusion: 	IMBA 5090
Previous Code: 	MGMT 523, MGTO 523
Vector: 	[2-0-0:2]
Description: 	Include motivation theories, leadership, group dynamics, job design, decision making, power and politics, organizational structure and design, and organizational change. This is a core course for MBA.
MGMT5550 - Effective Negotiations (2)
Exclusion: 	MIMT 5340 (prior to 2017-18)
Previous Code: 	MGMT 555, MGTO 651V
Vector: 	[2-0-0:2]
Description: 	This course focuses on two-party negotiations in a wide variety of settings ranging from simple buyer-seller bargains to complex, multiple-issue strategic relationships.
MGMT5570 - Applied Merger and Acquisition (2)
Previous Code: 	MGMT 557, MGMT 650G
Vector: 	[2-0-0:2]
Description: 	This course is designed to prepare business managers to succeed as members of a merger and acquisition project team.  Students will be able to work out how merger and acquisition can help to achieve the strategy, to know how merger and acquisition transactions work in practice from search to merger integration, to get insight into the particular opportunities and challenges of merger and acquisition, and to apply this thinking in a team environment.
MGMT5580 - China's External Relations and Their Economic Impact (2)
Previous Code: 	MGMT 558, SBMT 541, SBMT 601D
Vector: 	[2-0-0:2]
Description: 	This course will help students have a better understanding of how China relates to the rest of the world, both historically and now.  It will examine contemporary China's political and economic relations with the major countries and regions of the world, including the United States, Europe, Japan, India, Korea and Russia plus the developing countries in Africa as well as the territories of Taiwan and Hong Kong.
MGMT5590 - Responsible Leadership and Ethics (2)
Previous Code: 	MGMT 559, SBMT 543
Vector: 	[2-0-0:2]
Description: 	Great leaders and corporations take greater responsibilities for its customers, employees, shareholders, and society.  This class is to learn what it takes to be a responsible leader and how leaders can create responsible corporations. This course also intends to change behavior for future leaders by teaching decision making framework for making responsible and ethical decisions as they face these challenges. Maybe graded PP.
MGMT5670 - Managing Change (2)
Previous Code: 	MGMT 6500E
Vector: 	[2-0-0:2]
Description: 	This course helps you understand your strengths and development areas as a change agent. It then explores a model of change and the role of the change agent as a leader and influencer of others. An online simulation is used to help understand motivation and resistance in recipients of change. Finally, hands on practice is conducted for some key change agent competencies including creating a vision and communication.
MGMT5680 - Politics and Socioeconomic Environment of China (2)
Previous Code: 	SBMT 5400, SBMT 540, SBMT 601C
Vector: 	[2-0-0:2]
Description: 	This course will provide students with a broad overview of China's foreign policy and their economic ramifications. The country has transformed from one of the world's poorest countries into an engine of growth for the world economy. China has focused on economic development and its foreign policy is geared to further this national goal by ensuring a peaceful regional and global environment and by enhancing trade and investment between China and the rest of the world. Guest speakers will be invited to share their perspectives with students. Graded P or F.
MGMT5690 - Southeast Asia's Economies in Transition: Bubble, Crisis, and Renewal (1)
Previous Code: 	SBMT 6010F
Vector: 	[1-0-0:1]
Description: 	This course will help students gain a better understanding of the dynamic  economies of Southeast Asia and their potential as they achieve higher levels of economic integration through ASEAN. Graded P or F.
MGMT5730 - Social Entrepreneurship and Venture Philanthropy (3)
Exclusion: 	FINA 4929G
Previous Code: 	FINA 5970, SBMT 6010G
Vector: 	[3-0-0:3]
Description: 	Social Entrepreneurship uses business methods to address social and environmental problems, often in innovative ways. Venture Philanthropy uses venture capital funding tools to promote start-up and growth of social ventures. This course combines lectures, case studies, industry expert guest speakers and project work to involve students in social entrepreneurship and venture philanthropy with real social impact as a result. Student teams work with social enterprise partners to develop a growth plan and funding proposal for grant funding to be awarded to one of the social venture partner organizations at the end of the course. The course is multi-disciplinary and open to MBAs and other PG/UG programs. (UG students please email instructor with CV and motivation letter for course admission.)
MGMT5760 - Management Consulting (2)
Exclusion: 	MGMT 5540
Previous Code: 	MGMT 6500V
Vector: 	[2-0-0:2]
Description: 	This course is intended for students who are exploring consulting as a career option or who want to be more effective at working out and communicating recommendations. This course will teach students the key skills that management consultants use to solve business problems. This will be a demanding case-based course where students will learn the tools, skills and approaches adopted in leading management consultancies.
MGMT5770 - Building Effective Teams (1)
Previous Code: 	MGMT 6500F
Vector: 	[1-0-0:1]
Description: 	The course will offer students very practical tools and simple models that can also be applied in a corporate environment to help transform groups into engaged, motivated and focused teams that perform. These capabilities are also highly relevant to leading virtual teams that only meet remotely.
MGMT5780 - Managing Strategic Alliances in China (1)
Previous Code: 	MGMT 6500B
Vector: 	[1-0-0:1]
Description: 	This course offers a practical, real world understanding of managing strategic alliances and joint ventures in China for students interested in understand the role of strategic alliances in contemporary strategic management in general and managing alliances/joint ventures in China in particular. Graded P or F.
MGMT5810 - Blue Ocean Strategy Innovation (1)
Previous Code: 	MGMT 6500W
Vector: 	[1-0-0:1]
Description: 	The course introduces students to one of the most original ways of developing strategy to appear in business thinking in recent years known as Blue Ocean Strategy. Blue Ocean Strategy was developed by W. Chan Kim and Renee Mauborgne, both professors of strategy and management at the INSEAD business school. Their approach to strategy innovation is widely recognized as a significant step forward in strategic thinking and has been adopted by many companies to help them develop innovative strategy.
MGMT6500X - People Development: Coaching for High Performance (1)
Vector: 	[1-0-0:1]
Description: 	Today’s business leaders must have the ability to analyze numbers and systems and simultaneously to engage in active, thoughtful development of people. Manager employee interactions have largely replaced comprehensive organizational career management systems as the primary building block of learning and professional growth. However, managers often lack the skills to build collaborative relationships that facilitate the learning, performance and development of their people. Managers skill in empowering and coaching employees affects performance, morale and attrition. Approximately half the course will be an introduction to theories, models and tools of people development. The rest of the course will be devoted to learning and practicing applied coaching skills that students can take back to their jobs to enhance their individual growth and organizational success. Grade P or F.
MGMT6500Y - Realizing Value: Ensuring M&A success in Asia (1)
Vector: 	[1-0-0:1]
Description: 	This course will go deep-dive into the Asian M&A landscape which is as highly distinctive from the well-known & studied western market as growing steadily in importance with China taking the world lead in terms of outbound deals and transactions. Overall management elements will be of much greater proportion as the learning foreground while finance elements shall be of smaller proportion as learning background of the course.
MGMT6520F - Scenario Planning in Leadership and Longer Term Strategy (2)
Vector: 	[2-0-0:2]
Description: 	Scenario planning is a method of identifying risks that emerge from ‘weak signal events’ that occur almost as much as strong predictions. The course objectives will be to develop an overview of business opportunities created by the implementation of scenario planning in a range of different industry sectors and assess the appropriateness of using scenario planning compared with other longer term strategic and leadership concepts. The course will place emphasis on pragmatic, innovative and experiential methods of teaching whilst also highlighting the array of perspectives and approaches that exist within scenario planning.
MGMT6520G - Exploring Northeast Asia’ Invisible Giants – Japan and South Korea (1)
Vector: 	[1-0-0:1]
Description: 	Despite their high rankings in the world’s economy and obvious advantages including deep reservoirs of domestic savings, sophisticated middle-class consumers and proven record in high-tech, Japan and South Korea are eclipsed by the rapid growth of China, India and even ASEAN over the past two decades. The course will look at both these major regional economies from a macroeconomic and historical perspective, and also from the perspective of global investors in financial and non-financial assets.
MGMT6990 - MPhil Thesis Research (0)
Previous Code: 	MGMT 699, MGTO 699
Description: 	Master's thesis research supervised by a faculty member. A successful defense of the thesis leads to Pass. No course credit is assigned.
MGMT7130 - Doctoral Seminar in Organization Theory and Strategy (3)
Previous Code: 	MGMT 713, MGTO 713
Vector: 	[3-0-0:3]
Description: 	Presentations and discussions of current research topics in organization theory and strategic management for doctoral students.
MGMT7990 - Doctoral Thesis Research (0)
Previous Code: 	MGMT 799, MGTO 799
Description: 	Original and independent doctoral thesis research. A successful defense of the thesis leads to the grade Pass. No course credit is assigned.
MILE5001 - Second Language Acquisition (3)
Previous Code: 	MALE 5001
Vector: 	[3-0-0:3]
Description: 	Second Language Acquisition (SLA) is a multidisciplinary research field that provides researchers and educators with a better understanding of how a second language (L2) is learnt. This course will introduce different approaches to SLA research, such as psycholinguistics, neuroscience, and applied linguistics. It will cover both theoretical and pedagogical issues, with a special focus on the application of SLA theory to the L2 classroom context. Restricted to students in the MA program in International Language Education.
MILE5002 - Language Teaching Methodology and Curriculum Design (3)
Previous Code: 	MALE 5002
Vector: 	[3-0-0:3]
Description: 	This course aims to introduce experienced language-teaching professionals worldwide and those with language-/linguistics-based backgrounds but little or no language-teaching experience to theories and principles of teaching English as a second or foreign language, helping them construct a fundamental understanding of current theories and research in language acquisition and relate these to the practice of English language pedagogy. The course also investigates ways in which various approaches and methods can be utilized in the delivery of a foreign language curriculum and the teaching of language knowledge, including vocabulary and grammar, and both receptive and productive language skills. Restricted to students in the MA program in International Language Education.
MILE5103 - Testing and Assessment (3)
Previous Code: 	MALE 5103
Vector: 	[3-0-0:3]
Description: 	This course is aimed at raising the students' awareness level of the rudiments of effective assessment of language-related performance, such as essential global concepts of testing and assessment as well as practical skills for language teachers to develop, use and evaluate language tests. There is a balance of individual efforts and cooperative inter-dependent learning. Hence, the assessment will be contributed equally by individual work and group activities. Restricted to students in the MA program in International Language Education.
MILE5201 - World Englishes (3)
Previous Code: 	MALE 5201
Vector: 	[3-0-0:3]
Description: 	The position of English as a global language is commonly asserted. This course will examine the complex web of circumstances which lie behind the assertion. The presumption of the course is that it is useful and possibly essential for teachers of English to know something of the life story of the language, its varieties and place in the world at the beginning of the 21st century. A significant part of the course will examine, through the medium of seminars and workshops, how the global nature of the language can be exploited in teaching and learning environments. Restricted to students in the MA program in International Language Education.
MILE5205 - Grammar for English Teachers (3)
Previous Code: 	MALE 5205
Vector: 	[3-0-0:3]
Description: 	This course presents an overview of English grammar and focuses on the structural features that are often difficult for second language learners to acquire. It draws on both traditional and functional approaches, and uses a range of activities to help students apply the grammatical concepts and terms introduced in the analysis of learners' writing and teaching materials. Restricted to students in the MA program in International Language Education.
MILE5301 - Chinese Writing System (3)
Attribute:	
Previous Code: 	[3-0-0:3]
Vector: 	[C] Require Chinese reading
Description: 	MALE 5301 An advanced-level study of the Chinese writing system covering its origin, development, classification and characteristics. Students will learn a newly-developed framework, i.e., the three-principle theory of Chinese script, by which thousands of characters from the earliest oracle bone inscriptions to the modern form of the script can be appropriately analyzed and classified. This course also offers a critical survey of important issues related to Chinese script in modern times, including simplification, Romanization (Latinization), acquisition, recognition, and adaptability to various Sinitic and Sinosphere languages, taking into consideration research in general linguistics, sociolinguistics, heritage history, and cognitive science. Restricted to students in the MA program in International Language Education.
MILE5302 - Mandarin Chinese Grammar for L2 Chinese Teachers (3)
Attribute:	
Previous Code: 	[3-0-0:3]
Vector: 	[C] Require Chinese reading
Description: 	MALE 5302 This course aims to equip students concentrating in Teaching Chinese as a Second Language with an in-depth understanding of Modern Chinese grammar, necessary skills in analyzing grammatical features of Chinese in a cognitive and functional framework, and capability of applying the knowledge and skills in practical situations of teaching Chinese to L2 learners. Restricted to students in the MA program in International Language Education.
MILE5306 - Understanding Chinese Language in Global Context (3)
Attribute:	
Previous Code: 	[3-0-0:3]
Vector: 	[C] Require Chinese reading
Description: 	MALE 5306 This course examines the Chinese language against the background of global linguistic diversity. Issues to be discussed include the genetic affiliation of Chinese, the contact between Chinese and other languages, and structural properties of Chinese vis-à-vis other major languages in the world. Emphasis will be put on the understanding of typological characteristics of Chinese. Restricted to students in the MA program in International Language Education.
MIMT5110 - Doing Business in Asia (2)
Vector: 	[2-0-0:2]
Description: 	The course is designed to allow students to appreciate and understand the opportunities and challenges in doing business in the Asian countries. The course provides a broad introduction to key issues in the business environment including business policy, corporate governance, legal aspects, strategy, marketing and branding, services management and cross-cultural management, etc.. The implications of political, socio-economic, and cultural environment provide students with insights into how to formulate and implement strategies for competitive advantage and value creation in Asia.
MIMT5120 - Strategic Management in Asia (2)
Exclusion: 	MGMT 5480
Vector: 	[2-0-0:2]
Description: 	The primary topic of this course is strategic management in the Asian context. It focuses on key theories and frameworks in strategic management, the characteristics of the specific business environment in Asia, and insights of how to apply these theories and frameworks into the Asian context. It helps students who plan to work in Asian companies understand their roles and responsibilities in helping the companies to achieve competitive advantage; and to help those who work in foreign companies that either already have or will have operations in Asia to obtain the knowledge necessary to compete or cooperate with Asian companies more successfully.
MIMT5310 - Understanding Consumers: A Strategic Approach (2)
Exclusion: 	MARK 5290
Vector: 	[2-0-0:2]
Description: 	Consumers react to marketing information provided about a product. The topics discussed comprise an examination of basic psychological processes in a logical sequence: i.e., exposure, attention, perception, memory, persuasion, and decision-making. Advertising - and how consumers process ads -  is the major vehicle used to clarify these concepts. In addition, the course also furthers an understanding of consumer behavior by examining its social and cultural context, including the influence of group members (such as family and other important referents) on decision making and perception, and the nature and importance of cultural differences in consumer behaviour around the world. Thus, this course both a micro and macro perspective on the factors influencing a customer.
MIMT5350 - Project Management (2)
Exclusion: 	ISOM 5460 & ISOM 5770
Vector: 	[2-0-0:2]
Description: 	This course covers the essential project management skills to ensure successful implementation of business projects. Topics include investment decisions, resource planning, budgeting, scheduling, outsourcing, and risk assessment and control, etc.
MIMT6110 - Skill Seminar I (1)
Vector: 	[1-0-0:1]
Description: 	This skill seminar will be offered to develop the students' essential business and communication skills necessary to work in a global business environment such as communication, teamwork, negotiation and presentation skills. Some possible skill seminars include topics on time management, inter-cultural skills, group work abilities, international negotiation techniques, presentation skills, to name a few. Graded P or F.
MIMT6300 - International Internship (0)
Vector: 	[0 credit]
Description: 	Students are required to work on a minimum of 10-week international internship to get practical work experience to prepare for graduate employment. The location of international internship together with students' home country, home school and exchange school must cover at least three countries. Students' performance in the internship will be assessed and evaluated by the company upon completion of the internship. Graded PP, P or F.
MSBD5001 - Foundations of Data Analytics (3)
Vector: 	[3-0-0:3]
Description: 	This course will provide fundamental techniques for data analytics, including data collection, data extraction, data integration and data cleansing. The students will learn how to manage and optimize the analytics value chain, including collecting and extracting the suitable values, selecting the right data processing processes, integrating the data from various resources, data governance, security and privacy for Big Data applications.
MSBD5002 - Data Mining and Knowledge Discovery (3)
Exclusion: 	COMP 5331, CSIT 5210
Colist with: 	CSIT 5210
Vector: 	[3-0-0:3]
Description: 	Data mining has recently emerged as a major field of research and applications. Aimed at extracting useful and interesting knowledge from large data repositories such as databases and the Web, data mining integrates techniques from the fields of database, statistics and AI.
MSBD5003 - Big Data Computing (3)
Vector: 	[3-0-0:3]
Description: 	Big data systems, including Cloud Computing and parallel data processing frameworks, emerge as enabling technologies in managing and mining the massive amount of data across hundreds or even thousands of commodity servers in datacenters. This course exposes students to both the theory and hands-on experience of this new technology. The course will cover the following topics. (1) Basic concepts of Cloud Computing and production Cloud services; (2) MapReduce - the de facto datacenter-scale programming abstraction - and its open source implementation of Hadoop. (3) Apache Spark - a new generation parallel processing framework - and its infrastructure, programming model, cluster deployment, tuning and debugging, as well as a number of specialized data processing systems built on top of Spark.
MSBD5005 - Data Visualization (3)
Vector: 	[3-0-0:3]
Description: 	This course will introduce visualization techniques for data from everyday life, social media, business, scientific computing, medical imaging, etc. The topics include human visual system and perception, visual design principles, open- source visualization tools and systems, visualization techniques for CT/MRI data, computational fluid dynamics, graphs and networks, time-series data, text and documents, Twitter data, and spatio-temporal data.
MSBD5006 - Quantitative Analysis of Financial Time Series (3)
Exclusion: 	MAFS 5130
Colist with: 	MAFS 5130
Vector: 	[3-0-0:3]
Description: 	Analysis of asset returns: autocorrelation, predictability and prediction. Volatility models: GARCH- type models, long range dependence. High frequency data analysis: transactions data, duration. Markov switching and threshold models. Multivariate time series: cointegration models and vector GARCH model.
MSBD5007 - Optimization and Matrix Computation (3)
Vector: 	[3-0-0:3]
Description: 	The course will introduce basic techniques about optimization, including unconstrained optimization and constrained optimization, and matrix computation, including matrix analysis, linear systems, orthogonalization and least squares and eigenvalue problems.
MSBD5009 - Parallel Programming (3)
Exclusion: 	COMP 5112
Vector: 	[3-0-0:3]
Description: 	Introduction to parallel computer architectures; principles of parallel algorithm design; shared-memory programming models; message passing programming models used for cluster computing; data-parallel programming models for GPUs; case studies of parallel algorithms, systems, and applications; hands-on experience with writing parallel programs for tasks of interest.
MSBD5013 - Statistical Prediction (3)
Vector: 	[3-0-0:3]
Description: 	This course will introduce statistical predication models and algorithms, including regression models, classification, additive models, graphical models and network, model assessment and selection, model inference and model averaging.
MSBD5014A - Independent Project (3)
Vector: 	[3 credits]
Description: 	An independent project carried out under the supervision of a faculty member. This course may be repeated for credit.
MSBD5014B - Independent Project (3)
Vector: 	[3 credits]
Description: 	An independent project carried out under the supervision of a faculty member. This course may be repeated for credit.
MSBD5014C - Independent Project (3)
Vector: 	[3 credits]
Description: 	An independent project carried out under the supervision of a faculty member. This course may be repeated for credit.
MSBD6000A - Artificial Intelligence (3)
Exclusion: 	CSIT 6000F
Vector: 	[3-0-0:3]
Description: 	This course will cover advanced topics in AI including machine learning, agent design, mulitiagent systems, game search, natural language processing and knowledge representation and reasoning systems.
MSBD6000B - Deep Learning (3)
Vector: 	[3-0-0:3]
Description: 	Deep learning, the most successful technique to utilize big data in artificial intelligence, emerges as making breakthroughs in many applications such as computer vision, speech and natural language processing. This course exposes students to both the theory and concrete models of this new technology. The course will cover the following topics. (1) Basic concepts of Deep Learning; (2) Several concrete deep learning models, including Convolutional Networks, Recurrent and Recursive Networks, Autoencoders and Deep Generative Models. (3) Regularization and Optimization to make Deep Learning Models more effective and efficient.
NANO5100 - Chemistry of Nanomaterials (3)
Exclusion: 	CHEM 4220, CHEM 5540
Colist with: 	CHEM 5540
Previous Code: 	NANO 510
Vector: 	[3-0-0:3]
Description: 	Fundamental knowledge in development of nanostructured materials, introduction to the most updated research achievements in advanced functional materials: e.g., Liquid crystals, light emitters, conducting polymers, photoconductors, photoresists for nano- and microelectronics, nanostructured materials and devices, optical information storage, chromism, and piezo- and pyroelectricity.
NANO5250 - Nano Beam Technology (4)
Exclusion: 	PHYS 5820
Colist with: 	PHYS 5820
Previous Code: 	NANO 525
Vector: 	[3-1-1:4]
Description: 	Basic physical principles underlying many nano-beam techniques for fabricating and characterizing nanomaterials.  Introduction to nano process, e-beam and focus ion-beam lithograph, interaction between crystalline nanomaterials and electron/ion beams.  Electron beam diffraction and imaging, imaging contrast mechanism, nanostructure characterization and analytical electron microscopy.
NANO6100 - Independent Study in Nano Science and Technology (3)
Previous Code: 	NANO 610
Vector: 	[0-3-0:3]
Description: 	An individual in-depth study of a current topic in nano science and technology under the supervision of a faculty member.  For students of NANO program only.  The instructor's approval is required for taking this course. Graded P or F.
NANO7990 - Doctoral Thesis Research (0)
Previous Code: 	NANO 799
Description: 	Original and independent doctoral thesis research.  A successful defense of the thesis leads to the grade Pass.  No course credit is assigned.
PDEV6770A - Professional Development for Research Postgraduate Students (1)
Exclusion: 	CHEM 6770, ENVS 6770, LIFS 6770, MATH 6770, PHYS 6770, BIEN 6770, CENG 6770, CIVL 6770, COMP 6770, ELEC 6770, ENGG 6770, EVNG 6770, IELM 6770, MECH 6770, SBMT 6770, SHSS 6770, IDPO 6770, ENVR 6770
Vector: 	[0-1-0:1]
Description: 	This course aims at equipping research postgraduate students with transferrable skills conducive to their professional development. Students are required to attend 3 hours of mandatory training on Professional Conduct, and complete 12 hours of workshops, at their own choice, under the themes of Communication Skills, Research Competency, Entrepreneurship, Self‐Management, and Career Development. Graded PP, P or F.
PDEV6770B - Professional Development for Research Postgraduate Students (1)
Exclusion: 	CHEM 6770, ENVS 6770, LIFS 6770, MATH 6770, PHYS 6770, BIEN 6770, CENG 6770, CIVL 6770, COMP 6770, ELEC 6770, ENGG 6770, EVNG 6770, IELM 6770, MECH 6770, SBMT 6770, SHSS 6770, IDPO 6770, ENVR 6770
Vector: 	[0-1-0:1]
Description: 	This course aims at equipping research postgraduate students with transferrable skills conducive to their professional development. Students are required to attend 3 hours of mandatory training on Professional Conduct, and complete 12 hours of workshops, at their own choice, under the themes of Communication Skills, Research Competency, Entrepreneurship, Self‐Management, and Career Development. Graded PP, P or F.
PDEV6770C - Professional Development for Research Postgraduate Students (1)
Exclusion: 	CHEM 6770, ENVS 6770, LIFS 6770, MATH 6770, PHYS 6770, BIEN 6770, CENG 6770, CIVL 6770, COMP 6770, ELEC 6770, ENGG 6770, EVNG 6770, IELM 6770, MECH 6770, SBMT 6770, SHSS 6770, IDPO 6770, ENVR 6770
Vector: 	[0-1-0:1]
Description: 	This course aims at equipping research postgraduate students with transferrable skills conducive to their professional development. Students are required to attend 3 hours of mandatory training on Professional Conduct, and complete 12 hours of workshops, at their own choice, under the themes of Communication Skills, Research Competency, Entrepreneurship, Self‐Management, and Career Development. Graded PP, P or F.
PDEV6770D - Professional Development for Research Postgraduate Students (1)
Exclusion: 	CHEM 6770, ENVS 6770, LIFS 6770, MATH 6770, PHYS 6770, BIEN 6770, CENG 6770, CIVL 6770, COMP 6770, ELEC 6770, ENGG 6770, EVNG 6770, IELM 6770, MECH 6770, SBMT 6770, SHSS 6770, IDPO 6770, ENVR 6770
Vector: 	[0-1-0:1]
Description: 	This course aims at equipping research postgraduate students with transferrable skills conducive to their professional development. Students are required to attend 3 hours of mandatory training on Professional Conduct, and complete 12 hours of workshops, at their own choice, under the themes of Communication Skills, Research Competency, Entrepreneurship, Self‐Management, and Career Development. Graded PP, P or F.
PDEV6770E - Professional Development for Research Postgraduate Students (1)
Exclusion: 	CHEM 6770, ENVS 6770, LIFS 6770, MATH 6770, PHYS 6770, BIEN 6770, CENG 6770, CIVL 6770, COMP 6770, ELEC 6770, ENGG 6770, EVNG 6770, IELM 6770, MECH 6770, SBMT 6770, SHSS 6770, IDPO 6770, ENVR 6770
Vector: 	[0-1-0:1]
Description: 	This course aims at equipping research postgraduate students with transferrable skills conducive to their professional development. Students are required to attend 3 hours of mandatory training on Professional Conduct, and complete 12 hours of workshops, at their own choice, under the themes of Communication Skills, Research Competency, Entrepreneurship, Self‐Management, and Career Development. Graded PP, P or F.
PHYS1001 - Physics and the Modern Society (3)
Attribute:	(S&T)
Exclusion: 	Level 3 or above in HKDSE 1/2x Physics or HKDSE 1x Physics; any PHYS courses at 1100-level or above
Description: 	This course is for students with no physics background. Course content: Principle of scientific theories and methods, Aristotle's law, Newtonian mechanics. Thermal physics, heat engine, energy crisis and global warming. Nature of waves and the physics of hearing and vision. Electricity and magnetism, electromagnetic waves and telecommunication. Relativity, quantum physics, nuclear energy and semiconductor. Developments and outlook of contemporary physics.
PHYS1002 - Introduction to Astrophysics and Astronomy (3)
Attribute:	(S&T)
Prerequisite: 	Level 3 or above in HKDSE 1/2x OR in HKDSE 1x Physics
Exclusion: 	PHYS 1006, PHYS 4054
Description: 	This course introduces students to origin of modern astronomy, gravity, light and telescope, star light and atoms, stars (binary, formation, evolution, death), neutron stars and black holes, normal galaxies, peculiar galaxies, cosmology, the solar system, life on other world. Students without the physics prerequisite but have taken PHYS 1001 or equivalent may seek instructor’s approval for enrolling in the course.
PHYS1003 - Energy and Related Environmental Issues (3)
Attribute:	(S&T)(SSC-S&T)
Prerequisite: 	Level 3 or above in HKDSE 1/2x OR in HKDSE 1x Physics
Description: 	This course will introduce the basic concepts of the physical principles behind energy. Various forms of energy and their use (including electricity, fossil energy, nuclear power, various forms of renewable energy), and their impacts on the environment both from a global and a regional perspectives will be discussed. Issues related to energy conservation and related environmental issues in Hong Kong and the Pearl River Delta (PRD) will be discussed. Students without the physics prerequisite but have taken PHYS 1001 or equivalent may seek instructor’s approval for enrolling in the course.
PHYS1111 - General Physics I (3)
Attribute:	(S&T)
Prerequisite: 	Level 3 or above in HKDSE 1/2x OR HKDSE 1x Physics
Exclusion: 	Level 3 or above in HKDSE Mathematics Extended Module M1/M2, PHYS 1112, PHYS 1312
Description: 	PHYS 1111 and PHYS 1112 target students who have learned the most basic knowledge in physics in high school. Students with more advanced physics background should consider taking PHYS 1312. PHYS 1111 employs an algebra-based approach. Students with knowledge of calculus should take PHYS 1112 instead. Key topics include motions and Newton's laws, work and energy, conservation of energy and momentum, rotation, rigid body, simple harmonic and damped oscillations, forced oscillations, standing waves and sound waves, kinetic theory and the laws of thermodynamics. For students under the 4-year degree only. Students with a passing grade in any MATH courses coded between 1000 and 1600 need to seek instructor’s approval for enrolling in this course.
PHYS1112 - General Physics I with Calculus (3)
Attribute:	(S&T)
Prerequisite: 	(Level 3 or above in HKDSE 1/2x OR in HKDSE 1x Physics) AND Level 3 or above in HKDSE Mathematics Extended Module M1/M2
Exclusion: 	PHYS 1111, PHYS 1312
Description: 	PHYS 1111 and PHYS 1112 target students who have learned the most basic knowledge in physics in high school. Students with more advanced physics background should consider taking PHYS 1312. PHYS 1112 employs a calculus-based approach. Students without knowledge of calculus should take PHYS 1111 instead. Key topics include motions and Newton’s Laws, work and energy, conservation of energy and momentum, rotation, rigid body, simple harmonic and damped oscillations, forced oscillations, standing waves and sound waves, kinetic theory and the laws of thermodynamics. For students under the 4-year degree only. Students without the physics prerequisite but have taken PHYS 1001 or equivalent, and/or without the mathematics prerequisite but have taken MATH 1012/ MATH 1013/ MATH 1020/ MATH 1023 or equivalent may seek instructor’s approval for enrolling in the course.
PHYS1113 - Laboratory for General Physics I (1)
Corequisite: 	PHYS 1111 OR PHYS 1112 OR PHYS 1312
Description: 	A laboratory course to accompany PHYS 1111/PHYS 1112/PHYS 1312. Experiments in mechanics and heat are chosen to illustrate the experimental foundations of physics presented in the lecture courses.
PHYS1114 - General Physics II (3)
Prerequisite: 	(PHYS 1111 OR PHYS 1112 OR PHYS 1312) AND (level 3 or above in HKDSE Mathematics Extended Module M1/M2 OR MATH 1012 OR MATH 1013 OR MATH 1020 OR MATH 1023)
Exclusion: 	PHYS 1154 (prior to 2014-15), PHYS 1314
Description: 	This course targets students who have learned the most basic knowledge in physics in high school. Students with more advanced physics background should consider taking PHYS 1314. This course employs a calculus‐based approach. Key topics include Coulomb’s law, electric field and potential, Gauss’ law, capacitance, circuits, magnetic force and field, Ampere’s law, electromagnetic induction, AC circuit, Maxwell’s equations, electromagnetic waves, geometric optics, interference and diffraction.
PHYS1312 - Honors General Physics I (3)
Attribute:	(S&T)
Prerequisite: 	(Level 5* or above in HKDSE 1/2x Physics OR in HKDSE 1x Physics) AND (Level 5 or above in HKDSE Mathematics Extended Module M1/M2)
Exclusion: 	PHYS 1111, PHYS 1112
Description: 	This course is a more in-depth version of PHYS 1112. It is intended to provide a solid foundation to students who wish to take more advanced physics courses in the future. Key topics include motions and Newton’s Laws, work and energy, conservation of energy and momentum, rotation, rigid body, simple harmonic and damped oscillations, forced oscillations, standing waves and sound waves, kinetic theory and the laws of thermodynamics. Students without the prerequisite may seek instructor’s approval for enrolling in the course. For students under the 4-year degree only.
PHYS2022 - Modern Physics (3)
Prerequisite: 	PHYS 1114 OR PHYS 1154 (prior to 2014-15) OR PHYS 1314 OR PHYS 2421 (prior to 2013-14)
Description: 	Introduction to relativity; introduction to quantum theory: particle-wave duality and Schrodinger equation; atoms, molecules; and statistical physics: Maxwell, Bose and Fermi distributions.
PHYS2023 - Modern Physics Laboratory (1)
Corequisite: 	PHYS 2022
Description: 	Laboratory accompanying PHYS 2022.
PHYS2080 - Physics Seminar (1)
Description: 	Appropriate seminars and small group tutorials are scheduled to expose students to a variety of issues in science and society, and to enhance students' communication with faculties and among themselves. For Physics students in their second year of study under the four-year degree only. Graded P or F.
PHYS2090 - Directed Studies in Physics I (1)
Prerequisite: 	CGA at 2.70 or above
Description: 	This course covers special topics selected by the instructor on the basis of individual student's request. For students in the second year of study under the four-year degree only. Instructor's approval is required for enrollment in the course. May be repeated for credits.
PHYS3031 - Mathematical Methods in Physics II (3)
Prerequisite: 	MATH 2023 AND MATH 2121 AND (MATH 2352 OR PHYS 2124)
Description: 	Physical applications of analytic and numerical methods are studied in such topics as differential equations, Fourier series, Laplace transforms, matrices and vectors.
PHYS3033 - Electricity and Magnetism I (3)
Prerequisite: 	PHYS 1114 OR PHYS 1154 (prior to 2014-15) OR PHYS 1314 OR PHYS 2421 (prior to 2013-14)
Exclusion: 	PHYS 3053
Colist with: 	PHYS 3053
Description: 	A physics core course. Electrostatics: electric charge and fields, multipoles, Laplace equation, dielectrics; magnetostatics: currents, magnetic fields and vector potential, magnetic materials; Maxwell's equations.
PHYS3038 - Optics (3)
Exclusion: 	ELEC 4610
Description: 	Ray tracing, matrix optics, wave optics, superposition of waves and interference, coherence, Fresnel and Fraunhofer diffraction, polarisation, Fourier optics, holography, phase and group velocity, material dispersion, propagation of Gaussian beams.
PHYS3040 - Introduction to Materials Science (3)
Description: 	An integrated study of the nature and behavior of metals, ceramics and polymers.  Topics include crystal structures, phase diagrams, microstructures and microscopy, defects, phases and interfaces in materials systems, phase transformations, deformation, annealing and failure of materials.
PHYS3053 - Honors Electricity and Magnetism I (4)
Prerequisite: 	PHYS 1114 (Grade B- or above) OR PHYS 1154 (Grade B- or above) (prior to 2014-15) OR PHYS 1314
Exclusion: 	PHYS 3033
Colist with: 	PHYS 3033
Description: 	This course is a more in-depth version of PHYS 3033. Key topics include: (i) Electrostatics: electric charge and fields, Coulomb’s law, Gauss’ Law, multipoles, Laplace equation; (ii) Magnetostatics: currents, magnetic fields and vector potential, Biot-Savart Law, Faraday’s law, magnetic materials; (iii) Maxwell’s equations; and (iv) Interaction of electromagnetic fields with matter, polarization and magnetization, bound charges and bound currents, relative permittivity and permeability, ferromagnets.
PHYS3071 - Introduction to Stellar Astrophysics (3)
Prerequisite: 	PHYS 2022
Description: 	Stellar radiation, stellar spectrum, binary stars, interiors of stars, star formation, post-main-sequence stellar evolution, stellar remnants.
PHYS3090 - Directed Studies in Physics II (1)
Prerequisite: 	CGA at 2.70 or above
Description: 	This course covers special topics selected by the instructor on the basis of individual student's request.  For students in their third year of study under the four-year degree only. The instructor's approval is required for taking this course. May be repeated for credits.
PHYS3090A - Directed Studies in Physics II (1)
Prerequisite: 	CGA at 2.70 or above
Description: 	This course covers special topics selected by the instructor on the basis of individual student's request. For students in their third year of study under the four-year degree only. The instructor's approval is required for taking this course. May be repeated for credits.
PHYS3152 - Methods of Experimental Physics I (3)
Prerequisite: 	PHYS 1114 OR PHYS 1314
Corequisite: 	LANG 3013
Description: 	This course will cover the techniques of experimental physics in the area of electronics. Students will complete experiments involving ac circuits and input/output impedance, diodes and transistors, operational amplifiers, frequency analysis and digital electronics.
PHYS3153 - Methods of Experimental Physics II (3)
Prerequisite: 	PHYS 1114 OR PHYS 1314
Corequisite: 	LANG 3013
Description: 	This course will cover the techniques of experimental physics in the area of optics. Students will complete experiments involving basic optical systems, interferometry, waveguides and optical fibers, optical spectroscopy, semiconductor laser diodes, microwave reflection, scattering and diffraction.
PHYS4050 - Thermodynamics and Statistical Physics (3)
Prerequisite: 	PHYS 2022
Description: 	Laws of thermodynamics, entropy, thermodynamic relations, free energy; elementary statistical mechanics: Maxwell-Boltzmann, Bose-Einstein and Fermi-Dirac statistics; elementary transport theory; applications to physical systems.
PHYS4051 - Quantum Mechanics II (3)
Prerequisite: 	PHYS 3031/MATH 4052, AND PHYS 3036/PHYS 3037
Description: 	This course is mainly on approximation methods in quantum mechanics. Topics include stationary state perturbation theory, variational principle, WKB method, time-dependent perturbation theory, emission and absorption of radiation, adiabatic approximation and geometric phase, scattering theory.
PHYS4055 - Particle Physics and the Universe (3)
Prerequisite: 	PHYS 3036 OR PHYS 3037
Description: 	In this course, a systematic introduction to particle physics will be provided, with the topics mainly covering: the tool of Feynman diagrams, the Standard Model in particle physics (the zoo of fundamental particles, electroweak unified theory, and Higgs mechanism), particle physics at colliders (particularly at the Large Hadron Collider), and the interplay between particle physics and cosmology. It aims at enabling students to catch up the progress in particle physics in a timely way, and appreciate the beauty of fundamental rules in nature.
PHYS4058 - Information Physics (3)
Prerequisite: 	PHYS 3031 OR PHYS 4050
Description: 	Probability theory, entropy in information theory, relative entropy and mutual information, Second Law of thermodynamics, instantaneous code and block code, data compression: Huffman code, portfolio management.  Introduction to Mathematical Finance: Options and Binomial Tree.
PHYS4080 - Physics Seminar and Tutorial II (1)
Description: 	Appropriate seminars and small group tutorials are scheduled to expose students to a variety of issues in science and society, and to enhance students' communication with faculties and among themselves. For Physics students in their fourth year of study under the four-year degree only. Graded P or F.
PHYS4090 - Directed Studies in Physics III (1)
Prerequisite: 	CGA at 2.70 or above
Description: 	This course covers special topics selected by the instructor on the basis of individual student's request. For students in their fourth year of study under the four-year degree only. The instructor's approval is required for taking this course.
PHYS4090A - Directed Studies in Physics III (1)
Prerequisite: 	CGA at 2.70 or above
Description: 	This course covers special topics selected by the instructor on the basis of individual student's request. For students in their fourth year of study under the four-year degree only. The instructor's approval is required for taking this course.
PHYS4151A - Experimental Physics: An Experiential Approach (2)
Prerequisite: 	PHYS 1113 AND PHYS 1115
Description: 	This course encourages self-initiation and practicing experiential learning through hands-on experience. Students are expected to develop a study and fabrication plan at the start of the course. Under the supervision of the course instructor, students will design, build or fabricate the needed parts and assemble the parts to produce functional prototypes or units to demonstrate the proposed physical laws in the areas related to physics, e.g. mechanics, electronics, waves (optics or sound), electromagnetism, or model physics. By the end of the course, students are required to write a final report for the project and perform an oral presentation. The project may be extended for a second term for extra credits subject to satisfactory performance and project report. Students may also repeat the course for credits if different topics are taken. For PHYS students with instructor's approval only.
PHYS4191 - Capstone Project (4)
Prerequisite: 	PHYS 3152 AND PHYS 3153
Corequisite: 	LANG 4013
Exclusion: 	PHYS 4291
Description: 	Under the supervision of a faculty member, students will perform a capstone project based on a selection of advanced modern physics experiments. The students are expected to perform an independent literature search on the historical background, significance and impact of the experiments. Upon completion of the projects, students are required to submit a project report that complies with contemporary scientific standards and perform an oral presentation. For PHYS students under the four-year degree only.
PHYS4291 - Capstone Research (6)
Prerequisite: 	PHYS 3152 AND PHYS 3153
Exclusion: 	PHYS 4191
Description: 	Under the supervision of a faculty member, students will complete an independent capstone research project. The course is extended over two regular terms. By the end of the course, students need to summarize their results in the form of a short thesis and perform oral presentation. For PHYS students under the four-year degree only. Enrollment in the course requires approval by course instructors and supervisors. May be graded PP.
PHYS5210 - Electromagnetic Waves, Maxwell Equations, and Relativity (4)
Previous Code: 	PHYS 521
Vector: 	[4-0-0:4]
Description: 	Wave solutions of the Maxwell equations, electromagnetic wave propagation, scattering, and diffraction; Fourier optics; dielectric constant of metals and dielectrics and its analytic properties; guided waves; radiation by accelerating charges; special relativity and the transformation of Maxwell equations; radiation by moving charges.
PHYS5820 - Diffraction and Imaging Techniques in Materials Science (4)
Exclusion: 	NANO 5250
Colist with: 	NANO 5250
Previous Code: 	PHYS 582
Vector: 	[3-1-1:4]
Description: 	Fundamental crystallography; crystalline structure and defects; X-ray and electron diffractions; imaging contrast mechanisms; structure determination; analytical electron microscopy.  The instructor's approval is required for taking this course.
PHYS6000 - Physics Seminar (1)
Previous Code: 	PHYS 600
Vector: 	[0-1-0:1]
Description: 	Seminar topics presented by students, faculty and guest speakers. The seminars can be in the form of mini-workshops or activities organized by the Department. Graded PP, P or F.
PHYS6100B - Individual Study in Physics (1)
Vector: 	[1 credit]
Description: 	This course covers in-depth study on topics selected by the instructor on the basis of individual postgraduate student's request. The instructor's approval is required for taking this course.
PHYS6770 - Professional Development in Science (Physics) (2)
Vector: 	[0-2-0:2]
Description: 	This two-credit course aims at providing research postgraduate students basic training in ethics, teaching skills, research management, career development, and related professional skills. This course lasts for one year, and is composed of two parts, each consisting of a number of mini-workshops. Part 1 of the course is coordinated by the School; and Part 2 consists of some department-specific workshops which are coordinated by the department. Graded PP, P or F.
PHYS6810F - Modern AMO (Atomic Molecular Optical) Physics with Atoms and Photons (3)
Vector: 	[3-0-0:3]
Description: 	Introduction to modern atomic physics with ultracold atoms and photons. The basic theoretical tools for atom optics and quantum optics will be introduced. Basic topics include atom-light interactions, cooling and trapping neutral and charged atoms and molecules, degenerate quantum gases, quantum manipulation and detection of atomic states, ultracold collisions and others which provide the foundations for contemporary research in AMO physics. Recent research works will be also covered including many-body states in optical lattices and synthetic topological states in ultracold atoms.
PHYS6810G - Computational Energy Materials and Simulations (3)
Vector: 	[3-0-0:3]
Description: 	This course introduces atomistic computational methods to model, understand, and predict the properties and behavior of real materials, including solids, liquids, and nanostructures. Their application to sustainable energy will be discussed. Specific topics include: density-functional theory (DFT), Kohn-Sham equations, local and semi-local density approximations and hybrid functionals, basis sets, pseudopotentials; Hartree-Fock method; ab initio molecular dynamics with interatomic interactions derived on the fly from DFT, Car-Parrinello molecular dynamics;  Monte-Carlo sampling; computational spectroscopy from first principles, IR and Raman. The students will learn how to use free open-source packages to do materials simulations on a Linux computer cluster. The students should have basic knowledge of quantum mechanics.
PHYS6990 - MPhil Thesis Research (0)
Previous Code: 	PHYS 699
Description: 	Master's thesis research supervised by a faculty member.  A successful defense of the thesis leads to the grade Pass.  No course credit is assigned.
PHYS7990 - Doctoral Thesis Research (0)
Previous Code: 	PHYS 799
Description: 	Original and independent doctoral thesis research.  A successful defense of the thesis leads to the grade Pass.  No course credit is assigned.
PPOL5110 - Foundation in Public Policy (3)
Exclusion: 	SOSC 5780
Colist with: 	SOSC 5780
Vector: 	[3-0-0:3]
Description: 	This course is required for all first-year MPhil/PhD students in Public Policy. The course will provide an advanced foundation in the study and practice of public policy at the level required for graduate study. The course will cover both the historic foundations of policy studies, as well as emerging approaches and directions. As the study of public policy is inherently interdisciplinary, it will include perspectives from political science, public policy, economics, business and other aspects of social science. It will take a broad view of public policy, including taking up some of the core literature on public management and public administration.
PPOL5120 - Research Methods in Public Policy (3)
Exclusion: 	SOSC 5790
Colist with: 	SOSC 5790
Vector: 	[3-0-0:3]
Description: 	This course is required for all first-year MPhil/PhD students in Public Policy. The purposes of the course are to introduce to students the key concepts in research methods, and to help them develop skills in the design of empirical research used in the analysis of policy problems. The course aims to train students to be able to apply various research designs in conducting rigorous policy research in their chosen fields, as well as develop the ability to critically evaluate policy research products. A specific emphasis will be on the use of  quasi-experimental designs in policy research, as well as on their potentials and limitations.
PPOL5130 - Microeconomics and Public Policy (3)
Vector: 	[3-0-0:3]
Description: 	The course covers Microeconomic core modules concerning consumer, firm, and market with emphasis on public policy application. A policy topic follows each module enquires students to apply economic model to analyze real world cases and evaluate policies.
RMBI1020 - Business Intelligence in Contemporary Society (3)
Attribute:	(SA)
Description: 	Business intelligence is a new discipline that comprises a set of theories, methodologies and processes to analyze business data with the aim of improving an organization’s decision making, business planning and projection. The aim of this course is to introduce various types of business intelligence and discuss the effects of various social problems on the use of business intelligence. The course also focuses on an analysis of the strengths, limitations, causes and impacts of the use of business intelligence. The topics include business intelligence strategies, the power of social influence, data collection and management, confidentiality and privacy issues, business ethics, and organizational and human behavioral changes. Also included are case studies of real social problems involving the use of business intelligence and group discussion of various social issues.
RMBI2001 - Academic and Professional Development in Risk Management and Business Intelligence (0)
Description: 	This course is designed to provide academic advising to students throughout their studies in the RMBI program, to enhance their understanding of the industries relevant to Risk Management and Business Intelligence and the related techniques expected by the market. Students are required to attend seminars and discussion sessions. For RMBI students only. Graded P/PP/F.
RMBI3110 - Introduction to Risk Management and Business Intelligence (3)
Prerequisite: 	ISOM 2500 or MATH 2411
Description: 	This course presents basic concepts and techniques for risk management and business intelligence. Various types of risk such as market risk, credit risk and operational risk are discussed with business applications and regulatory issues. Modern development of business intelligence, data management techniques and related applications like financial analysis, risk assessment, customer relationship management and human capital productivity analysis are also presented.
RMBI4110 - Financial Service Operations Management (3)
Prerequisite: 	(ISOM 2500 OR MATH 2411) AND ISOM 2700
Description: 	This course focuses on the products, processes and delivery channels in the financial industries. It analyzes and evaluates the designs and performances of the internal operations and the different distribution channels of the financial institutions, and identifies opportunities for continuous improvement in productivity, efficiency and service quality. Issues like operational risk management, application of IT, automation, outsourcing and new trends in the financial service operations for both financial institutions and non‐financial institutions will be explored.
RMBI4220 - Life Contingencies Models and Insurance Risk (3)
Prerequisite: 	ELEC 2600 OR ISOM 3540 OR MATH 2421 OR MATH 2431
Description: 	The topics discussed in this course include survival models, life tables and selection, insurance benefits, annuities, premium calculation, and insurance policy values.
RMBI4980 - Risk Management and Business Intelligence Capstone Project I (4)
Description: 	Student conducts an in-depth study on selected topics in Risk Management and Business Intelligence under the supervision of a faculty. Scope may include the identification of a non-reference problem, followed by subsequent analysis and solution of the problem. Creative and critical thinking in the decision processes made under uncertainty are expected to be demonstrated in the project.
RMBI4990 - Risk Management and Business Intelligence Capstone Project II (4)
Prerequisite: 	RMBI 4980
Description: 	This is the continuation of RMBI 4980. Student conducts an in-depth study on selected topics in Risk Management and Business Intelligence under the supervision of a faculty. Scope may include the identification of a non-reference problem, followed by subsequent analysis and solution of the problem. Creative and critical thinking in the decision processes made under uncertainty are expected to be demonstrated in the project.
SBMT1111 - Business Student Induction (0)
Description: 	This is an induction course designed for all new students in the School of Business and Management. Students will be divided into 10 cohorts and assigned to designated academic advisors. They will also be participating in a series of planned activities, aiming to help them build bonds and simultaneously identify personal academic interest, examine educational goals, and develop plans to meet objectives through academic advising and other personal development workshops and programs. Graded P or F.
SBMT2100F - Community Services Project: Developing Leadership Through Service Learning (2)
Description: 	This course is offered in a form of a community project at a designated non-governmental organization (NGO) under the supervision of the School. Students are required to attend all the training sessions, design and implement the service project or participate in the service learning tasks as instructed by the host NGO and/or the course instructors. By the end of the course, students have to submit a reflective statement in the format of a paper, a group project report or a presentation to demonstrate the attainment of all intended learning outcomes, in addition to other requirements of the relevant NGO as appropriate. Approval from the course coordinator is needed prior to enrolling in the course. Graded PP, P or F. Students may repeat the course for credits if different topics are taken.
SBMT3200H - Corporate Project (2)
Description: 	Students apply skills and knowledge learned from business courses to focus on specific projects in a corporation setting. Students will work on group projects sponsored by participating corporations and supervised by faculty members. Approval from the course coordinator is needed prior to enrolling in the course. Graded PP, P or F. Students may repeat the course for credits if different topics are taken.
SBMT5010 - Accounting for Managers (3)
Previous Code: 	SBMT 501
Vector: 	[3-0-0:3]
Description: 	The first part of the course provides students with a basic foundation and practical understanding of financial accounting.  Focus is on the design, use and impact of financial information and accounting measures in organizational planning and control.  The second part of the course is to apply and analyze accounting information in managerial decision making with the fundamental concepts of accrual accounting given in the first part.  Registration is limited to students on the MSc program in Engineering Enterprise Management only.
SBMT6300D - Global Study Tour - London (2)
Vector: 	[2 credits]
Description: 	The course aims to expand students' horizon and understanding on the social, economic and business context of different cultures. Led by HKUST faculty, the study tour provides students with the opportunity to learn from leading professionals in selected locations globally through visits to partner universities or corporates, as well as meetings with local business leaders or alumni. Course duration will range from one week to multi-weeks. Students are allowed to repeat this course for credit if the locations of the study tours are different. May be graded by letter or P/F for different offerings.
SBMT6770 - Professional Development in Academia for Business (1)
Vector: 	[0-1-0:1]
Description: 	This one-credit course aims at providing research postgraduate students with basic training in ethics, teaching skills, research management, career development, and related professional skills. This course is composed of a number of mini-workshops, some of which are compulsory. Graded PP, P or F.
SCIE1000 - Science School Induction (0)
Description: 	This is a one-year course designed for year 1 science students. It provides induction activities to help students adapt to university life, and to understand the program structure of the school and the meaning of university education. Led by faculties, staffs, and peers, students will learn and practice skills such as teamwork, communication, time management, and goal setting. Graded P or F.
SCIE1090C - Community Services Project: Developing Leadership Through Service Learning (2)
Description: 	In collaboration with an NGO, the course is developed to nurture students' leadership and other professional skills through guest lectures and community service projects. Multiple teaching methods including lectures by guest speakers (ranging from international education experts, senior manager of well-known enterprises to experienced corporate training experts), self-assessment, experiential activities, discussion, etc, are used to cover topics like values and attitudes, leadership principles, relational skills, career planning and personal development. Through doing community service project in small groups, students can put into practice the core values, principles and skills learned in the course. At the end of the course, students are required to submit a report or reflective paper as appropriate.  Approval from the course coordinator is needed prior to enrolling in the course. Graded PP, P or F.
SCIE1100 - Career Building for Science Students (1)
Exclusion: 	GNED 2510, GNED 2520
Description: 	For Science students only. Co-offered by the School of Science and the Career Center (Student Affairs Office), this course helps students in exploring careers within the arena of Science and beyond. To achieve this, it guides students to have basic understanding of the career planning process, the current job market and employers' expectation in different fields. This course also equips students with practical job application skills, such as the skills for resume writing, aptitude tests, interviews, group discussions, etc. Experiential learning opportunities and individual feedback will be provided to actively engage students in the learning process. Instructor's approval is required for enrollment in the course. Graded DI, PA or F.
SCIE1110 - Great Ideas in Science (3)
Attribute:	(S&T)(SSC-S&T)
Description: 	The course is designed for students with no science background. Using historical great breakthroughs in science and mathematics as examples, the course intends to inspire students to appreciate scientific approaches and develop a genuine appreciation towards human curiosity in the understanding of the world and the power of ingenuity observation to overcome ignorance. The course is composed of 4 modules covering topics in mathematics, physics, chemistry and biology. Examples of topics include geometry, quantum physics, forensic chemistry and theory of evolution. In addition, the course develops students' sense of enquiry thinking and foundation of scientific methods through various active learning processes.
SCIE1130 - Scientific Understanding of Our World (1)
Previous Code: 	SCIE 1030A
Description: 	This course aims to provide students an overall scientific understanding of our world. This course will deal with fundamental questions, such as: Where does this universe come from? What is the origin of matter? What is the origin of life? What guides the human behavior? What shapes the development of the human society? What will be the future of this world? Students are expected to have Science background. Graded DI/PA/F.
SCIE3100 - Career Building in Science Education (2)
Description: 	This course introduces science students to the career prospects in the education sector and sharpens their skills in science teaching under regular school environments. Course activities include regular instructions, case studies on thorny scenarios that may occur in schools, guest seminars and sharing sessions by in-service teachers, job shadowing at secondary schools, and organization of school student visits at UST. For Science students in their third or fourth year of study with instructor’s approval only. Graded DI, PA or F.
SCIE3500 - IRE Research Project I (3)
Prerequisite: 	(for IRE students in LIFS, MATH, PHYS and ENVS) SCIE 2500; (for IRE students in CHEM) SCIE 2500 AND CHEM 3550
Corequisite: 	(for IRE students in LIFS) LIFS 3110
Description: 	This course is a one-term research project course specially designed for students in the IRE track. Together with SCIE 4500, these two courses comprise of two terms of research experience on a non-textbook specialized topic under the supervision of a faculty member, aiming to equip students with hands-on laboratory experience or independent studies and doing research reports. The course also aims at training students’ research communication and collaboration skills through discussion on their research topics and presentation of findings to peers and faculty members in different disciplines / areas of research. For IRE students only. Non-IRE students may enroll in the course upon instructor's approval only.
SCIE3900 - International Research Experience (3)
Prerequisite: 	SCIE 1500
Description: 	Research project under the direct supervision of a local faculty member and a co-supervising foreign faculty member in a foreign institution/national laboratory, which aims to guide students to explore advanced cutting-edge research opportunities with international visions and hands-on experience. Assessments comprise an individual written report and a presentation on a chosen topic. For IRE students only. Non-IRE students may enroll in the course upon instructor's approval only. Graded DI, PA or F.
SCIE4500 - IRE Research Project II (3)
Prerequisite: 	SCIE 3500
Corequisite: 	LANG 3011 OR LANG 4012 OR LANG 4013 OR LANG 4014 OR LANG 4015 OR LANG 4016
Description: 	This course is a one-term research project course specially designed for students in the IRE track. Together with SCIE 3500, these two courses comprise of two terms of research experience on a non-textbook specialized topic under the supervision of a faculty member, aiming to equip students with hands-on laboratory experience or independent studies and doing research reports. The course also aims at training students’ research communication and collaboration skills through discussion on their research topics and presentation of findings to peers and faculty members in different disciplines / areas of research. For IRE students only. Non-IRE students may enroll in the course upon instructor's approval only.
SHSS1010 - First-year Seminar (1)
Description: 	The seminar will focus on a topic or research area of special interest to a faculty member at SHSS. The faculty member will lead tutorial discussions, and inspire students to examine specific issues through fieldwork, projects and/or further reading. May be graded PP.
SHSS1030 - Career Building for Global China Studies Students (1)
Exclusion: 	GNED 2510
Description: 	Co-offered by the School of Humanities and Social Science and the Career Center of the Student affairs Office, this course helps students in exploring careers within the  arena of Humanities and Social Science and beyond. To achieve this, it guides students to develop basic knowledge of the career planning process, the current job market and employers' expectation in different fields. This course also equips students with practical job application skills, such as the skills of resume writing, aptitude tests, interviews, group discussions, etc. Experiential learning opportunities and individual feedback will be provided to actively engage students in the learning process. Instructor's approval is required for enrolling in the course. Graded DI, PA or F.
SHSS3001 - Understanding China, 1700-2000: A Data Analytic Approach (3)
Attribute:	
Exclusion: 	CommonCore (A&H special list) for 10&11 3Yprograms
Description: 	Common Core (A&H) for 2012 3Y programs
SHSS4991 - Capstone Project (3)
Corequisite: 	LANG 4070
Exclusion: 	SHSS 4992
Description: 	The capstone project aims to prepare students for research in humanities and social science, and may serve as an introduction to conducting research and writing a quality research project. For those students that do not wish to do a senior thesis, it will still enable them to learn the skills associated with a detailed research project and the presentation of research results. Enrollment in the course requires approval of the course coordinator.
SHSS4992 - Honors Thesis (6)
Exclusion: 	SHSS 4991, SHSS 4993
Description: 	Qualified students in the SHSS Global China Studies program are provided the option of writing a Senior Theses on an academic topic in a field of their own choice during the final year of study. The senior thesis is based on independent research conducted under the close supervision of a faculty member from SHSS. Enrollment in the course requires approval of the course coordinator.
SHSS6770 - Professional Development in Humanities and Social Science (1)
Vector: 	[0-1-0:1]
Description: 	The one-credit course aims at providing research postgraduate students basic training in ethics, teaching skills, research management, career development, and related professional skills. Graded PP, P or F.
SOSC1150 - Science, Technology and Work (3)
Attribute:	(SA)
Description: 	The course examines the growing integration of science and technology in our workplaces, the impact of science and technology on the direction of work, the workplace and even capitalism itself. The course investigates how science and technology have been key factors in shaping work since at least the beginning of factory production and generally explores the interactions between science, technology and work since that period. By surveying a range of topics and readings from history, sociology and anthropology of the workplace, this course also includes comparative discussions of science and technology as it is integrated into the workplace in industry as compared to the services.
SOSC1190 - China and the World:  China's Development in Historical and Comparative Perspectives (3)
Attribute:	(SA)
Description: 	In order to help the students better understand the causes and consequences of the economic development in contemporary China, this course examines this phenomenon from both historical and comparative perspectives. The course starts by reviewing the formation of a vibrant market economy in China from 1700 onward and introduce progress made in the studies of Chinese economic history. This historical background is important to view the socio-economic characteristics of the pre-1949 Chinese society and their relevance to modern economic growth. This course also exposes the students to the basic concepts and analytic tools in political economy such as market economy, the state, conflict of interests, correlation and causality, and selection bias. This illustrates the importance of causal explanations in social scientific inquiry and encourages students to compare it with similar causal reasoning in science and engineering.
SOSC1200 - Quantitative Social Analysis (3)
Description: 	This survey course introduces students to quantitative social analysis by showing how such techniques are used to examine important social science topics as health, business, education, inequality, family and kinship, careers, crime, migration, and economic, social and political change. For these and other topics, the class presents examples of classic as well recent studies that make exemplary use of data and methods, and which have advanced our understanding of the relevant phenomena. The class will also introduce the major sources of data for quantitative social analysis, with an emphasis on ones that are publicly available. Along the way, students will learn about the differences between the concerns, paradigms, and methodologies of the major social science disciplines. Strengths and limitations of quantitative techniques for the study of social phenomenon will be discussed, as will the relationship of quantitative approaches to other methodologies.
SOSC1210 - First-Year Seminar for Quantitative Social Analysis (1)
Description: 	Through discussions led by the instructor, and presentations from invited guests, this seminar will introduce students to quantitative social research being conducted by faculty in the Division of Social Science and elsewhere, and introduce applications of quantitative social analysis in non-academic settings such as government, industry, and non-profits. The course will introduce the goals and organization of the Quantitative Social Analysis program, help students develop their study plans, and survey careers in which students may apply the skills they learnt in quantitative social analysis. For QSA students only.
SOSC1270 - International Law (3)
Attribute:	(SA)
Description: 	International law (IL) is a system of principles than govern relations among states and the human rights of individuals. It is mainly studied through analyzing international agreements (treaties), customs and court decisions. The topics taught in this course are the same as those taught in almost all introductory IL courses everywhere in the world, including the history and sources of IL, states and international organizations; human rights; sea, air and space law; environmental law; the use of force; and the peaceful settlement of disputes. Many of the topics are frequently discussed in the mass media and concern events of world-wide importance.
SOSC1350 - Contemporary China: Continuity and Change (3)
Attribute:	(SA)(SSC-SA)
Description: 	This course introduces students to the major developments and changes in China since 1949 from a multidisciplinary social science perspective. It reviews the transformative and developmental strategies in the spheres of politics, economics, society and external relations during that historical epoch. It critically examines change and continuity over three periods, namely 1949-1977 or the Mao years, 1978-1989, the earlier reform and open-up years, and 1989-present, the post-Tiananmen years.
SOSC1420 - Poverty (3)
Attribute:	(SA)
Description: 	This course is an analysis of poverty, where the focus is on basic poverty measurement (such as Gini coefficient, income percentile, etc), underlying causes of poverty, impact of poverty on society, policy and practice on poverty reduction.
SOSC1850 - Understanding Society (3)
Attribute:	(SA)(SSC-SA)
Description: 	This course will help students appreciate the power of the sociological imagination in understanding their everyday lives. This is an age in which we tend to explain human behavior in terms of our individual achievements, personalities, and even our genetic make-up. The sociologist, however, looks at human behavior as the product of groups, organizations and culture. In order to master this sociological outlook, the course shall examine a number of topics central to our lives from the point of view of sociological perspectives and methods. These topics will include: culture, deviance, inequality, religion, education, social change and development, gender, intimate relations and the family, and power and politics.
SOSC1960 - Discovering Mind and Behavior (3)
Attribute:	(SA)(SSC-SA)
Description: 	This course introduces the fundamental scientific knowledge about human thinking and behavior processes, and illustrates the relevance of this knowledge to the betterment of human performance and well-being in a wide variety of settings in the society.
SOSC1980 - Psychology and Everyday Life (3)
Attribute:	(SA)(SSC-SA)
Description: 	This course introduces major challenges of adjustment individuals face during their transition to adulthood from a psychosocial perspective. Topics include role identities, personality, emotion, stress and coping, interpersonal attraction and communication, and workplace issues.
SOSC2120 - The Party-state System in China: Origins and Developments (3)
Attribute:	(SA)
Description: 	This course is a comparative and historical study of the most powerful political structure and governing system in modern times. The Party-state system first emerged in the beginning of the 20th century in Russia after the 1917 October Revolution, then inspired parallel political developments in China during the 1920-40s, in Germany during the 1930-40s, and eventually spread to more Central-East European and Asian countries. Special emphasis will be placed on post-1976 China for three reasons basically: the Party-state system therein has been displaying some unique novelties despite the noticeable institutional and structural continuity; the system has been appearing more attractive to some parts of the world community amid the recent economic and financial crises affecting numerous countries; and the system has been exercising growing weight upon the lives and future directions of the Hong Kong population and politics.
SOSC2130 - Education and Society (3)
Attribute:	(SA)
Description: 	The course will initiate a sociologically informed conversation about formal education. What forces have shaped current educational practices, and how can they be improved? Does schooling perpetuate inequalities? Why do boys perform so poorly compared to girls in schools? How can ethnic minorities be better served in educational systems? What should be the role of the humanities and creativity in education? How are administrative principles of audit culture, managerialism and performance targets shaping educational institutions? To answer these questions, students will be encouraged to reflect upon their own educational experiences, as well as examine contemporary debates about education at all levels in Hong Kong, and across cultures.
SOSC2170 - Environment, Sustainability and Business: A Design Approach (3)
Attribute:	(SA)
Description: 	Product design is the most effective and efficient way for a company to reduce its environmental impact and contribute to a sustainable society. In this course, we explore how products (e.g., phones, cars, buildings, community developments, software, and financial services) can be designed for the environment. Students will review existing designs and design their own products according to the parameters of environmental design - product function, profitability, firm strategy, lifecycle impacts, the circular economy, inter-firm relations, and governmental policies.
SOSC2290 - Understanding Globalization (3)
Attribute:	(SA)
Description: 	This course aims to help students learn theories and debates about globalization. The focus will be on economic, political, cultural, and social aspects of globalization. Students will discuss the process and impact of globalization in its various aspects.
SOSC2310 - Introductory Environmental and Health Economics (3)
Attribute:	(SA)
Previous Code: 	SOSC 2000B
Description: 	This course introduces students to basic theories and findings in environmental and health economics. The emphasis is on how the economic models and concepts can be used to analyze environmental and health issues. The course begins with an introduction of theoretical economic concepts and models; then it moves on to several policy-relevant environmental and health topics. Particular issues include externality, common goods and public goods, valuation of environmental goods and health, market failure and health, environmental regulations, pollution and health, and the economics of climate change. For students in their first and second year of study or those with approval from instructor for enrolling in the course.
SOSC2740 - Gender and Society (3)
Attribute:	(SA)
Description: 	This course studies how pervasive gender is in organizing our social life. We shall examine how gender organizes everything from our sense of personal identity to our daily face-to-face interactions, and how gender is embedded in institutions such as the family, labor market, media, and the state. The aim is to introduce students to a sociological perspective of thinking about gender.
SOSC3110 - Innovation and Technology in Hong Kong (3)
Attribute:	(SA)
Description: 	Exploration of Hong Kong’s technology policy with special focus on government and quasi-government initiatives in research, education, and technology promotion.
SOSC3240 - Application of Geographical Information Systems (3)
Attribute:	(SA)
Description: 	This course provides students with comprehensive knowledge of Geographical Information Systems including basic concepts, software and functions, data and application to social science and other fields.
SOSC3520 - Understanding Comparative Politics (3)
Attribute:	(SA)
Description: 	Compares the political systems of democratic, socialist and authoritarian regimes, by looking at Canada/U.S., China/Former Soviet Union, and Egypt. Course teaches the comparative method and policy analysis. Key issues include state formation, political leadership, political culture, political participation, political conflict, political institutions, and political processes and policy making.
SOSC3700A - Quantitative Social Analysis Laboratory (1)
Prerequisite: 	SOSC 2400
Description: 	Students will conduct a small research project related to the theme of a course from the QSA topical elective list in which they are simultaneously enrolled. Under the supervision of the instructor, students will choose a topic relevant to the co-enrolled QSA topical elective, locate suitable data, and design and conduct an analysis. They will also discuss the progress of their project at class meetings throughout the term. The course is intended to prepare students for the Capstone Project by giving them the opportunity to independently apply skills learned from methodological and statistical courses on a topic of their own choice. For QSA students with instructor's approval only. Subject to the approval of the instructor, students may co-enroll in a topical course not on the QSA menu but with a social science focus. May only be taken twice.
SOSC4000F - Jerusalem through the Ages: Historical Geography of the Holy City (3)
Description: 	The reality of a city is determined by its past; this is even more so in the case of Jerusalem, a city sacred to the three Abrahamic religions: Judaism, Christianity and Islam and a focal point in the emerging history of the Middle East. The course will describe the development of Jerusalem from Biblical times to the early 20th century. It will analyze the geographical and historical factors in each period. It will focus on the political and religious conditions of the city through the ages to explain the cycles of rise, growth and prosperity versus periods of decline and stagnation in the history of Jerusalem.
SOSC4260 - China's Economic Transformation (3)
Prerequisite: 	ECON 2103 or SOSC 1350 or SOSC 1440
Exclusion: 	ECON 4204, SOSC 2230 (prior to 2013-14)
Description: 	This course explores the origins, processes, and consequences of economic change in China since 1978. It focuses on China's transformation from a closed and state-controlled economy to a market-oriented, increasingly internationalized, and predominantly private economy. It begins with an overview of the Maoist economic system since the communist revolution in 1949. It then examines how the rules governing economic activities have been redefined in major economic sectors since 1978. It also highlights the main features of the new, capitalistic economy and reflects on the issues and challenges that have emerged during the transformation of the economy.
SOSC4290 - China's Sustainable Development (3)
Prerequisite: 	ENVR 3110 OR SOSC 1170 OR SOSC 3150 OR SOSC 3180 (prior to 2013-14)
Description: 	There is a great necessity and responsibility for China to shift to a more sustainable development path. This course is designed to provide students with an understanding of the concepts, principles, and evaluation methodologies of sustainable development. The course will introduce students to multidisciplinary approaches to apply these principles and methods to analyse sustainable development issues in China, such as energy resources and water pollution, transportation and urbanization, and climate change; and to explore solutions for China's future development. Governance and policy, technology, organizational and individual behavior are important elements affecting sustainable development and will be examined at international, national, and local levels.
SOSC5090 - Statistics in Social Science (3)
Exclusion: 	MGCS 5010, SSMA 5020
Previous Code: 	SOSC 509
Vector: 	[3-0-0:3]
Description: 	An introduction to statistics at an advanced level. Necessary to understand much of social science literature and topics in research methods. Focuses on applicability to students' own research and includes computer exercises. Enrollment by students from outside the Division of Social Science by instructor permission.
SOSC5110 - Social Science Research Design and Methods (3)
Exclusion: 	SSMA 5010 (prior to 2017-18)
Previous Code: 	SOSC 511
Vector: 	[2-1-0:3]
Description: 	To answer the question "how do we translate concepts and theories about human interactions and institutions into empirically testable propositions?" The primary objectives of the course are: (1) to familiarize students with canons of contemporary social research, and (2) to enable students to initiate and execute their own research projects. Enrollment by students from outside the Division of Social Science by instructor permission.
SOSC5520 - International Aspects of China's Reforms (3)
Previous Code: 	SOSC 552
Vector: 	[3-0-0:3]
Description: 	A study of the impact of China's international opening on China's economic, political and cultural development.
SOSC5660 - Migration and Globalization (3)
Exclusion: 	SSMA 5180
Previous Code: 	SOSC 566, SOSC 602P
Vector: 	[3-0-0:3]
Description: 	This course aims to explore the interrelationship between migration and economic development in the era of globalization.  Special attention is given to the role of human capital circulation between China/HKSAR and the outside world.
SOSC5720 - Economic Development in China (3)
Previous Code: 	SOSC 6030A, SOSC 603L
Vector: 	[3-0-0:3]
Description: 	This course focuses on economic reforms and development in China, especially since 1978. It will be a combination of institutional details and comprehensive empirical evidence. Basic knowledge in statistics or economics will benefit.
SOSC5750 - International Political Economy (3)
Previous Code: 	SOSC 6030B
Vector: 	[3-0-0:3]
Description: 	This course explores some of the important topics in international political economy. Specifically, if focuses on the politics of international economic relations by examining international trade and finance, foreign direct investment, international organizations, and development.
SOSC5770 - Policy Analysis and Design for Sustainable Development (3)
Vector: 	[3-0-0:3]
Description: 	Sustainable development problems pose some of the greatest challenges for policy makers around the world, and effective policy design requires analysts with strong subject matter understanding, creativity, and the ability to incorporate diverse perspectives and approaches. The goal of this course is to advance students’ abilities to apply tools and methods, including analytical techniques and presentation skills, which are required for effective policy analysis and decision making in this area. Coursework in the course will be largely case based, and topical issues will be presented and mastered alongside different analytical skills and techniques.
SOSC5780 - Foundation in Public Policy (3)
Exclusion: 	PPOL 5110
Colist with: 	PPOL 5110
Vector: 	[3-0-0:3]
Description: 	The course will provide an advanced foundation in the study and practice of public policy at the level required for graduate study. The course will cover both the historic foundations of policy studies, as well as emerging approaches and directions. As the study of public policy is inherently interdisciplinary, it will include perspectives from political science, public policy, economics, business and other aspects of social science. It will take a broad view of public policy, including taking up some of the core literature on public management and public administration.
SOSC5790 - Research Methods in Public Policy (3)
Exclusion: 	PPOL 5120
Colist with: 	PPOL 5120
Vector: 	[3-0-0:3]
Description: 	The purposes of the course are to introduce to students the key concepts in research methods, and to help them develop skills in the design of empirical research used in the analysis of policy problems. The course aims to train students to be able to apply various research designs in conducting rigorous policy research in their chosen fields, as well as develop the ability to critically evaluate policy research products. A specific emphasis will be on the use of quasi-experimental designs in policy research, as well as on their potentials and limitations.
SOSC6100A - Independent Study (3)
Previous Code: 	SOSC 610A
Vector: 	[3 credits]
Description: 	Independent study in a designated subject under the supervision of a faculty member; may require readings, tutorial discussions, and submission of research paper(s); may be repeated for credit if different topics are studied. Regular students are required to enroll in 3-credit course. Enrollment in course below 3 credits require the Division's approval.
SOSC6100B - Independent Study (3)
Previous Code: 	SOSC 610B
Vector: 	[3 credits]
Description: 	Independent study in a designated subject under the supervision of a faculty member; may require readings, tutorial discussions, and submission of research paper(s); may be repeated for credit if different topics are studied. Regular students are required to enroll in 3-credit course. Enrollment in course below 3 credits require the Division's approval.
SOSC6990 - MPhil Thesis Research (0)
Previous Code: 	SOSC 699
Description: 	Master's thesis research supervised by a faculty member.  A successful defense of the thesis leads to the grade Pass.  No course credit is assigned.
SOSC7990 - Doctoral Thesis Research (0)
Previous Code: 	SOSC 799
Description: 	Original and independent doctoral thesis research.  A successful defense of the thesis leads to the grade Pass.  No course credit is assigned.
SSMA5020 - Quantitative Methods in Social Science (3)
Exclusion: 	MGCS 5010, SOSC 4610, SOSC 5090
Colist with: 	MGCS 5010
Previous Code: 	SSMA 502
Vector: 	[2-1-0:3]
Description: 	This course teaches basic concepts and skills required to conduct quantitative research in social science. Students will learn to design and conduct statistical analyses to test hypotheses. They will acquire experience in the use of statistical software such as STATA to carry out analysis of social data.
SSMA5050 - Economic Transformations in Post-Mao China (3)
Previous Code: 	SSMA 505
Vector: 	[3-0-0:3]
Description: 	This course offers a comprehensive account of the transformations in the economic institution of China since the late 1970s.
SSMA5090 - Understanding Personality (3)
Previous Code: 	SSMA 509
Vector: 	[3-0-0:3]
Description: 	This course provides an overview of theories of personality and examines how personality develops through different perspectives.
SSMA5210 - Economic Development (3)
Exclusion: 	SOSC 6030I
Vector: 	[3-0-0:3]
Description: 	This course examines the economic situations of low and middle-income economies, considering many important topics in the field of development economics. It addresses questions such as what factors help explain why some countries are rich and others poor and whether economic policies can affect these factors. We will study key aspects of life for poor households in the developing world, such as inequality, gender and the intra-household division of resources, education, health, savings and credit, institutions and globalization. Students will also study recent research in the field and examine empirical evidence on these topics.
SUST1000 - Introduction to Sustainability (3)
Attribute:	(S&T)(SA)
Description: 	This course introduces students to the full scope of the issues related to the sustainability of humanity on a planet with limited natural and social capacities. The principal contributions of science, engineering, business management, the social sciences and humanities to understanding and resolving these issues will be reviewed, providing students with a gateway to further studies in sustainability.
TEMG1010 - Technology and Management Professional Activities (0)
Description: 	A compulsory course for students enrolling in the Dual Degree Program in Technology and Management throughout their four years of study.  This course is designed to provide academic advising to students, to enhance their personal and professional skills, to improve their understanding of latest business and technology development and to improve their communication skills.  Activities involve discussion sessions with advisors, executive forums, and mentoring program. Graded P or F.
TEMG4950Y - Special Project: Artificial Intelligence for Barons Executive Recruiting (5)
Description: 	Corporate investment in artificial intelligence (AI) is predicted to triple in 2017, becoming a $100 billion market by 2025. Last year alone saw $5 billion in machine learning (ML) venture investment. In this experiential learning course, students will work on a challenge faced by an executive recruitment firm of how to plan for AI technology adoption for process automation. To solve this problem, students will learn about the recruitment industry, recruitment processes, object-oriented analysis, AI with supervised learning, AI Chatbot and software project planning. The final deliverable is a presentation of recommended process automation strategies and investment plan to a panel of external judges and corporate sponsors, namely Barons, IBM and Harman. Enrollment in the project course requires approval of the course instructor.
UROP1100S - Undergraduate Research Opportunities Series 1 (1)
Previous Code: 	UROP 110
Description: 	This is the first course of a three-course series under the Undergraduate Research Opportunities Program (UROP). The series enables a student to complete a faculty-led research project that can possibly span three terms. UROP 1100 is the first course of such a project series. For projects that span more than one term, successful completion of UROP 1100 is a pre-requisite for proceeding to UROP 2100 of the same project; successful completion of UROP 2100 is a pre-requisite for proceeding to UROP 3100. Approval by faculty supervisor(s) is required. Students are required to submit a written report upon completion of each course. May be repeated for credit under a different project. Graded P or F.
UROP2100S - Undergraduate Research Opportunities Series 2 (1)
Prerequisite: 	UROP 1100
Previous Code: 	UROP 120, UROP 1200
Description: 	This is the second course of the three-course series developed under the Undergraduate Research Opportunities Program (UROP). The series enables a student to complete a faculty-led research project that can possibly span three terms. Enrollment in UROP 2100 requires successful completion of UROP 1100 of the same project. UROP 2100 may be repeated for credit under a different project which has been successfully completed at the UROP 1100 level. Approval by faculty supervisor(s) is required. Students are required to submit a written report upon completion of the course. Students with approval by supervising faculty may continue in the project series. Graded P or F.
UROP3100S - Undergraduate Research Opportunities Series 3 (1)
Prerequisite: 	UROP 2100
Previous Code: 	UROP 130, UROP 1300
Description: 	This is the third course of the three-course series developed under the Undergraduate Research Opportunities Program (UROP). The series enables a student to complete a faculty-led research project that can possibly span three terms. Enrollment in UROP 3100 requires successful completion of UROP 2100 of the same project. UROP 3100 may be repeated for credit under a different project which has been successfully completed at the UROP 2100 level. Approval by faculty supervisor(s) is required. Students are required to submit a written report upon completion of the course. Graded P or F.
UROP4100S - Undergraduate Research Opportunities Series 4 (1)
Prerequisite: 	UROP 3100
Previous Code: 	UROP 1400
Description: 	This course is developed by the Undergraduate Research Opportunities Program (UROP) and is intended for students who have completed the UROP 1100 - 3100 series under a faculty-led research project to expand their research experience into the fourth term. Enrollment in UROP 4100 requires successful completion of UROP 3100 of the same project. Approval by faculty supervisor(s) is required. Students are required to submit a written report upon completion of the course. Graded P or F.
